

  
IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF 
PENNSYLVANIA

Case Number 4:04-CV-02688
TAMMY J. KITZMILLER, et al., Plaintiffs  
vs.
DOVER AREA SCHOOL DISTRICT;
DOVER AREA SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS, Defendants

AFTERNOON SESSION

TRANSCRIPT OF PROCEEDINGS OF BENCH TRIAL

Before: HONORABLE JOHN E. JONES, III

Date : September 28,

Place : Courtroom Number 2, 9th Floor Federal Building Walnut Street 
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania

COUNSEL PRESENT:

ERIC J. ROTHSCHILD, ESQ. WITOLD J. WALCZAK, ESQ. STEPHEN G. HARVEY, 
ESQ. RICHARD B. KATSKEE, ESQ.
For Plaintiffs

PATRICK T. GILLEN, ESQ. RICHARD THOMPSON, ESQ. ROBERT J. MUISE, EQ
For Defendants

Lori A. Shuey, RPR, CRR Official Court Reporter

INDEX

WITNESSES

For Plaintiffs: 
Julie Smith 
Christy Rehm
Beth Eveland 



  

   (The following discussion occurred in chambers:)


    Let's go on the record. We are in chambers, and this is 
the matter of Kitzmiller, of course, versus Dover Area School 
District. We have assembled as planned with respect to the issue of 
certain subpoenas that have been issued to reporters Joseph Maldonado 
and Heidi Bernhard-Bubb.

Present in chambers are counsel for both the plaintiffs and the 
defendants, and in addition to that, let me ask that you enter your 
appearances specially, presumably as counsel for the individuals we 
referred to in our orders collectively as "reporters."



    I'm here, Niles Benn, on behalf of both of the reporters, 
Heidi Bernard-Bubb and Joseph Maldonado. And with me is Terance Barna,
an attorney in my office, as well.



    All right. Now, previously, on September 12th, the Court 
entered an order which went to the motion for reconsideration. That 
related specifically to -- filed by the reporters. That went 
specifically to our August 2nd order which, in effect, said that the 
reporters would have to testify at certain depositions. Subsequently, 
the reporters were, if memory serves, approximately eight days ago, 
subpoenaed to testify by the plaintiffs in the case-in-chief. Yet 
another motion to quash or for alternative relief was filed by the 
reporters through Mr. Benn's office. By our order of last Thursday 
-- the date escapes me, I think it was Thursday -- the Court denied 
relief in that matter. The Court was advised that yesterday, on 
September the 27th, the reporters, both of them, showed up at the 
appointed times for their depositions as appropriately scheduled by the
defendants, and I'm advised -- and I'll correct this if I'm wrong 
-- that both reporters cited the reporter's privilege that they consider
to exist under the First Amendment so that they would not answer 
any questions at those depositions. We're brought here today by that, 
as well as the fact that I presume you're here because the reporters
have been properly subpoenaed to appear in the plaintiffs' 
case-in-chief. Now, have I mischaracterized anything from your 
standpoint? 



    No, everything that you said is correct, Your 
Honor. 



    Now, the most salient question then is, with 
respect to the reporters' appearance today, is it your understanding 
that the reporters are intending to invoke the same privilege cited 
by them yesterday, if called, when called, to testify by the 
plaintiffs?



    Yes.



    All right.



    But that's the reason why I had asked if we could have 
this conference.



    The floor is yours.



    Thanks. I'm not here to discuss law. I think we have 
discussed the law ad nauseam with respect to briefs, argument. I 
certainly understand the opinion and orders that have been rendered by
the Court, and I appreciate them.

And I don't want there to be a misunderstanding in terms as to this
case being wrongly focused. And what I mean by that, with regard to
all of you in this room is that we've got approximately 40 people from
the media that are observing this trial in the courtroom, plus 
outside of the courtroom.

In speaking for myself, it would be my humble opinion that if these 
parties were called to the stand to testify and refuse to testify, 
as I just indicated to you, Your Honor, that I think the focus of 
this trial all of the sudden isn't addressed as to intelligent 
design, but rather the media is going to be very much concerned in 
terms as to these stringers, not full-time employees, not employees at
all, standing up for what they think is right. And I really truly 
believe in my heart of hearts the focus gets misdirected. I really 
truly do mean that, because I don't think that should be the focus 
of this case.

As a result of that, Mr. Barna and I have spent days in an effort 
to try to see if there was a means by which we could somehow 
ameliorate the problem so that, in a certain sense, everybody gets 
what they want. I clearly will not get what I want, because at the 
end of the day, if I agree that my reporters are going to testify 
predicated upon something that I want to propose here, that's more 
than I would want, because I stand by the fact and they stand by 
the fact that there's a reporter's privilege here.

They refuse to testify at a deposition, and my suggestion to them 
was that if we were capable of resolving something as a result of 
this conference, that they would then attend a deposition, because I 
believe the defendants would have a right to cross-examine them or 
otherwise examine them prior to them taking the stand. And based upon
that, they would then testify in court.

But we have several issues. One is that when we filed our motion to
quash last week, quite honestly, we thought we did it in a timely 
fashion because we filed it only after we were served with the 
subpoena. Your Honor summarily dismissed that motion to quash, so, in 
effect, if my reporters were to be called upon to testify today by 
the plaintiffs, they're undressed. They've got no protective order at 
all. They're just regular people. Because the order I believe that 
you had previously entered related to the deposition and not related 
to their appearance in court. So that raises an issue for us because
clearly we would otherwise object to them taking the stand under the
order as it currently exists or the motion that you're -- your 
position that the motion to quash could not stand.

I interpret the order and the amended order to mean that Your Honor,
in a sense, has addressed them as fact witnesses. I don't think you
actually come out and use the word "fact witnesses," but as one 
reads the order, that's the implication. And you initially had 
indicated that you did not feel that the reporter's privilege stood 
in this kind of a case.

These two newspapers respectively go to approximately 89 municipal meetings
in terms of different municipalities and school districts. And 
ironically -- in a sense, I have to commend both Mr. Maldonado and 
Ms. Bernard-Bubb because, again, they're paid per story. They get 
anywhere between $40 and $50 a story. They might make $300, $400 a 
week if they write X number of stories, and that's it. And the 
stories that they write predominantly are municipal stories.

She's a full-time mom. She's breastfeeding. She has a seven-month old 
child, and so she works at night when her husband is at home. He's 
a schoolteacher. Mr. Maldonado owns a little deli in the market in 
York, and he home-schools his son, his youngest son who has learning 
disabilities. And he's been doing that for the last three years. So 
this is just supplemental income to them because they're not very 
wealthy people. But yet without a lot of education in terms of 
journalism, they believe that what they're standing for is the right 
thing.

I don't have control over them as I would an employee of the Daily 
Record or the Dispatch because they are stringers and independent. So 
having said that, their fear is that because of all those 
municipalities that they cover and the school districts that they 
cover, that at least in the Middle District Court, should a matter 
come up similar to this case, then they are exposed as a fact 
witness.

I've related to them, quite frankly, this is the first case we've 
ever had in federal court in the years that I've been doing 
newspaper law, and most of our cases are in county courts, and so, 
you know, there's a different issue there. But having said that, the 
concern that I have is that there is a precedent being set in the 
counties that these people otherwise work.

So how do I make it better? Well, we provided an affidavit, and 
that affidavit indicated that we, if called upon to testify, would 
validate the authenticity of the articles that were written. We did 
that, in effect, to offer to both sides so that we wouldn't 
otherwise have to testify. Accepted by the plaintiffs, not accepted by
the defendants. Defendants wanted to have the right of 
cross-examination.

And at the time when you wrote the original order and you used the 
words "perceived, saw, and heard," we were concerned, as you well 
know, with the word "perceived" in terms as to what's the thought 
process. And there was dialogue on the phone amongst all of us, and 
you made it very clear that you did not want any testimony that 
would otherwise relate to biases and prejudices. And, in fact, when 
you reviewed the notes of the reporters, you had also indicated that 
your review of Heidi Bubb's notes and the e-mails clearly evidence 
that there was no bias in the writings, those writings.

The concern that we currently have is that the order reads, in 
effect, that they have to testify as fact witnesses, predicated upon 
my interpretation, as to what is otherwise unpublished material so 
that, for example -- just using this for example.



    That's not my intention.



    No, no, but I --



    Well, that's not my intention. And I wanted to let you 
go as far as you could, and I think I have to interject and I 
want to interject and I want to be clear, because I think it's 
important that I do that. Let me address a couple points that you 
made.

First of all, I understand and deeply respect the position that 
you're in in this case. And by saying that the motion was untimely, 
it was not legally untimely, it was untimely in my view only in the
sense that it came, as I said, on the eve of trial, when we knew 
that there was going to be an issue with respect to their testimony 
at trial. It was an attempt to bring this to a head. It was 
successful in that respect. It was not successful in solving the 
problem, but it was successful to bringing it to a head. So to that
extent, I succeeded, good, bad, or indifferent.

With respect to the point that you made as it relates to their 
testimony at trial, that is a very valid point. However, I will tell
you that the sense of my opinion as it related to their deposition 
testimony and as reconsidered and as honed in the reconsideration, was
that it was meant to apply -- the general thrust of that, the 
protections, if you will, in that opinion were meant to apply in the
same sense to their testimony at trial, if they chose to testify, 
and they would be protected in every way by the Court, and they 
would not be questioned in the broader sense. So it would not revert
back to an unprotected realm, if you will, at the time of trial.

To be as clear as I can be, at issue in this case -- and I can't 
particularly be concerned about precedential value. I understand your 
concern in that regard. I have to try this case the best way that 
I know how. The concern in this case, and it is a vital concern by
all parties, is that we have, as you well know, to restate the 
obvious, we have newspaper articles within which there are quotes from
individuals. Those quotes go, at least in one sense, to the purpose 
behind the policy that was enacted by the Dover School Board.

The simple issue here, because it is the Court's understanding that 
these individuals have denied that they made these remarks, is from 
the plaintiffs' standpoint how can they get something that is, in my 
view, on the purpose test, which clearly goes to the truth of the 
matter asserted, how do they get these newspaper articles into 
evidence? Well, they can't, in my view, without the reporters 
testifying.

The defendants might say that even with the reporters testifying, they
can't get them in. I think that's their argument. But at the very 
least, in my view, and I think the plaintiffs might agree with this,
the reporters would have to testify.

I didn't say this strictly in the opinion, perhaps, but my opinion 
was not meant to allow the testimony of the reporters to go in any 
way, in particular, outside the four corners of the affidavits 
rendered by the reporters. I can't say that to the word, and that's 
why the opinions were crafted the way that they were. The Court has 
to have some discretion on the questioning.

But I was as clear as I could possibly be that what is at issue 
here would be, for example, the particular events that the reporters 
wrote about and questions such as -- simple questions, did they attend 
the meeting, did they hear them say the comments, did they write the
story immediately after, did they take notes at the time of the 
meeting.

I thought my opinion was clear in that regard, and as you 
appropriately characterize, no questions as to bias or motivation or 
reasons to misrepresent quotes would be allowed in. There I believe 
we would decidedly fly in the face of established case law.

I did not view and do not view the law as providing that there is 
some exhaustion requirement, although I understand some cases have said
that. In this particular fact situation -- and I do think, I will 
say, on the issue of precedent, you can distinguish cases of -- and 
I'm not so sure I would be as fearful as some might be as to 
precedential value. I think this case is somewhat distinguishable, and 
I don't know that a judge in another situation would knee-jerk allow 
this type of testimony. We are in a very unique situation here, and 
that's what we have.

Finally, the last thing that I want to do -I'm answering soliloquy 
with soliloquy here. I'm not sure if this is a dialogue. Finally, I 
am acutely cognizant of the fact that this trial has abundant media 
coverage, and it is surely not my intent to force a constitutional 
confrontation with two reporters and to create a side show that we 
don't need to. That's why we're meeting in chambers.

But I'll tell you that if it's their persistent position that they 
don't want to testify, then we'll go on the record -- now, I'm not 
going to put them on the witness stand. I don't think it's necessary
to do that. I would bring you and the reporters, I will tell you, 
to the bar. I will swear them in, I will have them sworn in. I 
will ask you the question whether they're going to testify. I will 
allow them to speak for themselves on that point, and then we'll 
decide what we're going to do at that point.

I don't know what else to do, but I'm not going to go through the 
charade of having them take the stand and assert, you know, as 
articulately as they can the privilege that they believe that they 
can avail themselves of.



    That's fine.



    I interrupted you, but I think it was necessary to do 
that.



    Well, let me share with you why I have the issue that I 
have. About a week and a half ago I had a telephone dialogue with 
Eric because I had proposed to Eric the possibility that in light of
your most current order and because you took out the issues of 
biases and things of that nature and because we're going to be 
called to trial by Eric, that maybe he should be speaking to Pat to
see whether they would be willing to accept the affidavit in lieu 
of the testimony.



    I think we're beyond that.



    Well, and then what happened was, we had a conference 
call, Eric, Pat, several others in Pat's office and myself and Terry.
They indicated that they would not. And then in the course of that 
conversation, the defendants counsel had stated, for example, we would 
like the opportunity to ask if they heard Mr. So and So say 
something, why didn't they write that. That's what I'm concerned about
with respect to --



    I'm not going to allow that question.



    But you weren't at the deposition, meaning you don't know 
that that question wouldn't be allowed and quite frankly yesterday you
were in trial.



    I said, though, very clearly in the last order, I 
thought, in the September 12th order, that I would be available. And 
I thought, when I heard that the reporters, quite frankly, appeared 
for depositions, that when I was on a break, I was going to hear 
an accumulated list of questions that were objected to and that I 
would have to rule on those questions.

Now, I don't have time to preside over a deposition at this late 
date. And I know that you respect that. You're experienced counsel 
and you know that. I do know from my private practice experience 
that I was extremely loathed to get a judge on the telephone in 
mid-deposition. That could be one of the most unhappy experiences that
a lawyer would have.



    You got it.



    Depending on the time of day and the personality of the 
judge.



    Especially after your last opinion on my case, I 
don't want to call you at all.



    As you see, I'm far more genial than I express in 
writing. What I invited by that opinion, though, was that I would be
available -- and I believe in an issue that is as important to the 
reporters and to you, as their counsel, as this, it is appropriate 
for you to stop a deposition on a question like that, instruct your 
witness not to answer, and allow the Court to rule on it. I was 
inviting you to do that. Now, I understand what your reasons are for
not doing that, and I think you can do that.

Now, if you're telling me that you have problems with certain 
anticipated questions but not others and if you're telling me that 
the reporters would not exercise the privilege if they were kept 
roughly within the confines of their affidavits --



    I go beyond that. I'm willing to have them testify as to 
what they wrote in the article and basically forget the affidavit.



    That's fine.



    That means everything that's set forth in that article.



    Well, then I think we've clarified that point. Then I 
think you should reschedule the depositions and try to do that.



    Well, if I can interject -- I mean, this is kind of like 
my last hurrah.



    We could only hope not.



    It depends what happens next week. Because we don't have 
an order with respect to trial testimony -- and we don't, except for 
the fact that, again, they're naked.



    I'll produce that order, if necessary.



    Well, let me share with you where I'm coming from, because
I think what I've done here -- and obviously I can't do your job. 
But what I'm proposing here, if you could just evaluate it.



    Depending how long this trial goes, you might be my guest
in terms of doing my job.



    All I'm doing is adding something to what it is that you 
basically have already written. And if I could just read this. You 
have no idea how long it took us to write this. Because I think it
does exactly what you just said.

It says, Wherein an affidavit is provided in lieu of testimony to 
support a newspaper article or newspaper articles, the reporter shall 
be obligated to testify as to the facts set forth in the articles, 
i.e., what was seen and heard as related in the newspaper articles.

By doing so, the reporters would be verbalizing the contents of said 
affidavit -- I think, actually, they were your words when we had the 
telephone conference -- by testifying as to what appears in the 
newspaper article or articles, unless such affidavit is otherwise 
accepted by all parties as validating and authenticating the contents 
of the newspaper article or articles in issue. Meaning if they accept
it, it becomes moot.

However, no testimony shall relate to unpublished material or 
information or to the reporters' motivations, bias, mental impressions, 
or other information extrinsic to what the reporter saw and heard, 
and the reporter shall not be obligated to reveal any confidential 
sources.

What I've tried to do here is to say, they'll testify as to 
everything that appeared in those articles. And how I then distinguish
this case from maybe my next case is, where an affidavit is 
provided and the Court or the parties don't accept the affidavit.

What I've done is, it says that there's no extraneous unpublished 
material questioning. That's the clarity that I need. And then, quite 
frankly, my mindset is, if the issue of the defendants is that we 
were biased in our reporting because we either misquoted somebody or 
whatever, well, this isn't a jury trial. You're trying this case. 
You're either going to believe the reporters or you're going to 
believe Mr. Buckingham or Mr. Bonsell or whomever when they say, I 
didn't say that. But my concern is that I have to have some degree 
of certainty by your order that they can't ask any questions as to 
unpublished materials.



    Are you suggesting that this language
should apply to both the depositions and the trial testimony? 


    Meaning if you could adapt language similar to this for the 
trial testimony and I agree, I have no problem in them being at a 
deposition prior to trial with the same kind of language relative to 
that. I will appear at a deposition prior to trial. I would like to
do that, because of my own health conditions, maybe on Friday in 
terms as to a deposition, if that works within anybody's schedule, 
and then maybe the latter part of next week. Because what I did 
was, I put my surgery off until next Friday to get this done.



    Well, the problem Friday, I assume you fellows are getting
out of here on Friday, but I'm not sure of that.



    Or we could do it Monday.
I mean, whatever works. 



    Well, we do have Friday morning
off.



    Right.



    Although you may have something scheduled in terms of 
pretrial planning. I'm not sure. Do you know?



    I have a plane flight.



    I was not going to be here.



    Do we need the whole team?



    I was the one going to take the deposition.



    Yeah, Ed was there yesterday.



    Alternatively?



    Well, we'll do what we have to do.



    Scheduling usually isn't my pay grade, but, you know, you 
can figure that out. Go ahead.



    Judge, if I may, there are some things here that we can
agree with, but there are others that we can't. And this is why, 
in our opinion, Judge. You know, if our clients are believed, the 
reporters did talk to them but took misrepresentative statements so 
that they left things out to put them in a false light and in so 
doing have created articles that, if they were admitted for the truth
of the matter asserted, would be misrepresentative.



    Well, that's what I'm not going to get into. And I 
understand and I respect that argument. But I think I've got to 
line-draw here someplace. And I understood that argument before. And 
what I don't want to do here is turn this into an oral argument on
things that I've already decided. And I know you respect that.

I think there is a privilege here, and I think the privilege 
sometimes gets drawn in what appears to be an ad hoc manner. But my
job is to find where to put the line down in this case. To 
traipse into the area of why they selectively used a quote as 
opposed to not using other things that were said I think is to get 
on a very slippery slope. It really almost precipitates a bias line 
of questioning, and I'm not going to allow it. I am trying to 
narrowly draw this.

I understand that that's not what the defendants want in this case, 
but I don't think it's called for. And, as a matter of fact, I 
think if I did that and I ordered that and if -- I assume that the 
reporters would not testify and I would predict, if it went to the 
Third Circuit on that basis, I would be reversed. I don't think that
that's a fair area of inquiry to get into.

This looks artificial when you're dealing with a fact witness, but 
these are fact witnesses who are also reporters, and I am straining 
to try to find a fair way to do this. I believe that to the 
extent -- and I've said this now several times -- that the reporters' 
testimony is necessary in order to invoke the residual hearsay 
exception under Rule 807, that the defendants have to have an 
opportunity to examine the reporters on the same topics and subjects 
that I would allow the plaintiffs to question them on during their 
case-in-chief, nothing more and nothing less.

So I'm inclined to accept this language, you know, not word for 
word, only to the extent where it states, rather generically, "wherein
an affidavit is provided," I would take that sentence and simply say
that affidavits have been provided, rather than "wherein." It's 
somewhat artificial or a little strained as it relates to this case.

The rest of it I don't have any problem because I think it does 
not do violence to my opinions. And this gets into a semantical 
exercise to some degree but one that is important, I understand, to 
the reporters. We have got to cut the Gordian knot here. Either --



    We can live with this, and they would testify if we had 
language similar to this.



    Well, my intention would be to enter an order that is a 
wrap-around order, if you will, that is, in effect, a 
re-reconsideration of the order on the depositions but also speaks to 
the trial testimony in chief. And it will be abbreviated because of 
the time constraints on me, but we'll issue it forthwith, and it 
will indicate that you're going to -- they're going to sit for 
depositions under those circumstances.



    Can I ask whether that would be reported?



    In what sense? When you say "reported," what do you mean 
by that?



    "Reported" meaning in the books.



    Oh, published. 
When you say "reported" and you're talking about reporters, then I'm 
thinking, I have enough work in this case. No, we wouldn't publish 
it, but there are reporters who can access the CM/ECF system.



    No, the reason why I'm asking whether it would be 
published, I don't know whether your original opinion --



    You're worried about the precedential value. No, it's not 
my intention to publish it. I have no need. However, good or bad 
news travels fast, and in the legal realm it will be cited by 
somebody someplace.



    You have no idea.



    Oh, you'd be surprised.



    Your Honor, just in an effort to avoid needless procedure
or inquiry, if I could just get a sense for what you have in mind
and intend by the order. If they show up for deposition and begin 
to testify about an article about June 14th, --



    Hypothetically?



    Hypothetically. Would we be at liberty to say, did you 
hear anything else, did you see anything else? 



    No, because
-- and I know this is difficult, but it goes like this. And this is
the best I can put it, other than what I tried to do in my 
opinion. We have articles. We have a situation where the declarants, 
the quoted individuals, have apparently denied -- either denied, I guess
-- I'm not sure about this. This is my understanding, either denied 
that they said what was reported in the articles or said that they 
were statements taken out of context. And they can speak for 
themselves. And that's one of the reasons that I'm line-drawing here. 
They can say that, and I'll take that under consideration.

But from the reporters' perspective, were they at the meeting. The 
obvious answer is yes, but they haven't answered that under oath. Did
they hear the statement that is included in the article? Perhaps 
where were they standing in the room, did they utilize a tape 
recorder for the purpose of taking down the statement or did they 
use a tape recorder and did they take notes contemporaneously with 
the statement. How long after the meeting did they write their 
article, did they use the tape recorder, did they use notes as it 
related to that statement. Those are the types of inquiries that 
relate specifically to the contents of the article.

To allay Mr. Benn's concerns, I think it is not fair game to talk 
about all the other things that they heard and why they wrote the 
article the way they did and why they excluded quotes. I sincerely 
believe that that gets into journalistic integrity, and that's 
problematic, and it's not my intent to allow that, nor would I allow
any questioning on anything personal to the reporters. I think I 
spelled that out in detail in the prior orders.

We are going to simply have them testify for the purpose of 
authenticating the contents of that article, nothing more, nothing 
less, because I really believe that to do more than that is to 
create, I think, a precedent which would have reporters called -- Mr. 
Benn, I think, fears that even this would do that. I don't share 
that fear. But to go any further than that would mean that a 
reporter's veracity could be questioned each and every time something 
like this comes up. I strain mightily not to have to do that. 
That's what I'm talking about. Now, I don't know if that clarifies 
it.



    It does, Your Honor, I think in large measure. And I 
would ask this, with your leave, would it suffice to preserve my 
objection that I object here in chambers on the record?



    That's fine. And I note that, and that's why I wanted to
do this on the record. And I understand that you object to that, 
and I understand the defendants have interposed not only this 
objection but they have also argued against that. And to the extent 
that this really clarifies and reasserts what I have in my prior 
orders, I think you've preserved your position as it relates to that,
and I understand that position.



    Thank you.



    Anything from the plaintiffs?



    We have no objection to the proposed modification, Your 
Honor.



    All right. So with that brief change to what is a little
bit awkward in the first sentence, the "wherein" -- and I don't mean 
that facetiously, but just as it relates to this case, because this 
almost looks like it's a contracted or --



    I understand. I just wanted to make sure the word 
"affidavit" was in there.



    We will recite that. We will get a clarifying order out.

Now, for the purpose of -- because this is a very public trial. 
What's your intention, what are your thoughts regarding how we should 
address this? Because it's known that this is a festering controversy.



    That's an interesting question. I mean, if we're not called
today, which we're not going to be, I don't know that it really is
an issue. We just had dialogue in chambers, the judge is going to 
be entering an order, and after we receive the order, we'll be able 
to make a decision in terms of where we proceed.



    Well, I don't know about that. I think you can assume, 
unless you doubt my word, I'm going to issue an order -- and I'm 
very serious -- I'm going to issue an order and that order will be 
forthwith. I would prefer that --



    We can say that we've restricted the order in such a 
fashion that we believe the reporters will testify.



    If I might be so bold, that we are satisfied with the 
resolution.



    Thank you.



    We expect an order that is consistent with our 
understanding of an agreement that we reached -- I will let it to you
to address that. And my intention would not be to address this 
again in open court this afternoon. We would just move on. You have 
other witnesses, I assume, to present, and we can move through this. 
I'm simply saying I don't want wiggle room that we're waiting to 
see, because I've had that experience now before.



    If you indicate to me as you have, that this is 
satisfactory to you, I will indicate that we are satisfied with the 
prospective order that we understand the Court is going to enter and 
that our clients will be testifying at deposition and at trial.



    Because I'll adopt this, but I don't want to do this 
again.



    I understand.



    And you don't want to do it again, I know, I recognize.



    Your Honor, just one other clarification question. With 
regard to asking what they saw and heard with regard to all of the 
statements and the articles, I would assume that's statements made 
after the gavel banged and the meeting was over. Some of those 
quotes are afterwards.



    Yes.



    But can questions be asked as far as the context of 
those statements? THE COURT: Ask the question that you want to ask.



    When so and so said this thing, you know, it was in 
response to what, what question or what else was being talked about 
when this statement was made.



    No. That's too amorphous a question. The issue here, I'll 
restate, is the veracity of the articles themselves, did the reporter 
hear the statement as reported. If it was taken out of context, 
we're not going to delve into that in this examination. The 
individual who believes -- who was quoted and believes the statement 
was taken out of context or flatly that he didn't or she didn't say
it and it's inaccurate will have the opportunity to say that during 
the defendants case-in-chief or at any other time during the trial.

We're not going to side door, you know, a bias argument by going 
into context. Context is a dangerous thing as it relates to what 
we're doing here. So, no, it's -- we presume that the statement was 
likely given to the reporter upon a question being asked by the 
reporter, although it could have been volunteered. That's of no 
moment.

The issue is, did the reporter hear the statement, was it reported 
adequately, not was it reported out of context, but did those words, 
as quoted, come out of that individual's mouth. Now, I can't be any 
clearer than that. All right?



    Your Honor, one thing I might ask, since it is perhaps 
likely that issues are going to arise during the deposition, I'm 
wondering if we could now attempt to schedule the deposition at a 
time when everybody, including Your Honor, might be available to 
intercede.



    Well, what's your next day that would be available if not
Friday?



    Monday.



    Well, Monday I'll be in chambers in Williamsport all day.



    I cannot do it Monday because I couldn't get here on 
Sunday. My wife is going out of town, and I have to watch all the 
kids. I could do it Tuesday, I could do it Wednesday.



    Tuesday and Wednesday is a Jewish holiday for me. I can't 
do it.



    How about tomorrow?



    I'm leaving tomorrow.



    Well, look, if it's any weekday other than next Friday 
when I will not be available -- I'll be traveling next Friday -- I'll 
be available. And, you know, we'll work through that issue. And if 
you're otherwise taking the deposition and we're at trial, I'll tell 
you that we'll construct some mechanism -- and we kind of talked about
this a little bit yesterday -- where you hold the thought if counsel 
instructs the reporters not to answer because it's a problematic 
question, and we can circle back and we'll deal with that later.

I understand those things could come up in the course of the 
deposition, and I'll rule on those as I can if I'm not instantly 
available. So whether I'm sitting at trial or not -- and likely it 
will be a day when I'm sitting in trial -- we'll deal with it.



    How about later today?



    You work that out. Let's get back on the record here, 
because we've got people waiting and I want to get going. You'll 
have to work that out. But I will tell you in concluding that if 
it is at night, if you do it at night, I will give you my home 
number, and you can contact me so we get this finished. If we have 
to do that, we'll do it so we get it finished. I will not attend 
the deposition, though. I stopped doing that when I got this job. 
Anything else? 



    No. Thank you, Your Honor.



    Thank you, Your Honor.



   (The discussion in chambers was concluded.)



    We return in session, and I want to apologize to the 
assembled spectators and, of course, to the media. We handled a 
matter in chambers that you'll become aware of in an effort to 
resolve a problem, and I think we did. These things arise during 
trials from time to time. That is the first time that we've had 
that type of matter in this trial. We may have others as the trial 
unfolds. But it was a necessary exercise. And we try to keep them 
at a minimum and we will keep them at a minimum during the trial.

But with that, we will go back to the plaintiffs. You may call your
next witness.



    Your Honor, the plaintiffs would call Julie
Smith.


   JULIE SMITH, called as a witness, having been duly sworn or affirmed, testified as follows:


   DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. HARVEY:



   Please tell us your name.


   Julie Ann Smith.


   Where do you live, Ms. Smith?


   Honey Run Drive, York, Pa.


   And is that within the area covered by the Dover Area School District?


   Yes, it is.


   And how long have you lived there?


   Fourteen years.


   Do you have any children?


   Yes, I have two children.


   How old are they?


   My daughter Katherine is 16, and my son Michael is 19.


   Your daughter Katherine, what school does she attend?


   Dover High School.


   What grade is she in?


   She's in eleventh grade.


   Please tell us what you do for a living.


   I'm a medical technologist.


   And please summarize for us your educational background.


   I graduated high school in 1979, and I graduated at York College with a degree in medical technology in 1984.


   Now, did there come a time when you learned that the Dover Area School District Board of Directors was considering approval of a biology textbook?


   Yes.


   And tell us, when did you learn that?


   I learned that in June of '04.


   And what was the basis for your knowledge?


   I read it in the paper.


   Do you remember what you read?


   Yeah, I read it in the York Daily Record, and, yes, I do remember.


   Please tell us what you remember learning at that time.


   That the school district was very concerned about approving a biology text that did not include creationism.


   And do you remember anything else that you learned at that time?


   Not right off the top of my head.


   Okay. Did there come a time when you learned that the school district board of directors had approved a biology text?


   Yes, they did in August.


   And what was the basis for you learning that at that time?


   I read about it in the paper.


   And did there come a time when you learned that the school district board of directors was considering a supplemental textbook?


   Yes.


   And what was the basis for your knowledge of that?


   I learned that from the paper, also.


   And what did you learn?


   That they were going to have Of Pandas and People in the classroom as a supplemental text to the biology book.


   And did you learn about where that book was going to come from?


   It was donated.


   Now, did there come a time when you learned that the board had made a change to the biology curriculum?


   Yes.


   And approximately when was that?


   In October, I believe it was, in '04. It was in the newspaper that they were going to be teaching their intelligent design from Of Pandas and People.


   And did you attend that board meeting?


   No.


   And did you learn anything else from reading the newspapers at that time?


   Well, that they were going to read the statement in the classroom, yes.


   Okay. Now, I'd like to ask you to take a look in the notebook at what's been marked as P127.


   Yes.


   Can you tell us what it is?


   It's the newsletter that came to the house in the mail that told -- that had the statement included that they were going to be teaching in the biology class.


   Now, do you know approximately when you received this?


   Well, it says it was February, so I'm assuming it was February.


   Did there come a time when -- let me withdraw that. Do you believe that the board's actions in this case, the change to the biology curriculum and its other actions, have caused you harm?


   Yes, I do.


   And can you tell us what harm you believe that it has caused you?


   Late in '04 my daughter came home from school, and I was discussing kind of what was going on in the district with her. And she looked at me and she said, Well, Mom, evolution is a lie, what kind of Christian are you, anyway, which I found to be very upsetting.


   Did you ask her why she said that?


   Yeah, I asked her why she said that, and she said in school what they had been talking about or amongst her friends and what's going on. She seemed to be under the impression that as a Christian, she could not believe that evolution was a science that, you know, was true.


   And how did that harm you?


   Well, it goes against my beliefs. I have no problems with my faith and evolution. They're not mutually exclusive.


    No further questions of this witness. 



    All 
right. Cross-examine, Mr. Thompson. 



    Thank you, Your 
Honor. 



   CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. THOMPSON:



   Mrs. Smith, my name is Richard Thompson. I represent the defendants in this case. And do you recall in April where your deposition was taken by another member of the Thomas More Law Center, Patrick Gillen? Do you remember being involved in that deposition?


   Yes, I do.


   Were you present in court for all the testimony that has been given in this trial?


   No.


   When did you get to court?


   Tuesday morning.


   Now, whose testimony have you heard so far?


   I heard some of Ken Miller's. I heard Barrie Callahan, Bryan Rehm. I heard the gentleman this morning.


   Okay. You were asked to become a plaintiff in this case by the ACLU, were you not?


   No.


   Didn't someone from the ACLU call you?


   Yes, they called me. But I was actually asked by my friend at work, who said to me, would you be interested in having the ACLU contact you, and I said yes.


   And so the ACLU contacted you, and you agreed to become a plaintiff in this case?


   Yes.


   Now, will you agree with me that the policy which is the subject matter of this lawsuit, the curriculum change in the biology for ninth grade, took place on October 18th, 2004?


   Yes.


   That's when the board passed the resolution that changed the biology curriculum?


   I believe so, yes.


   And that policy was implemented for the first time in January of 2005. Is that correct?


   That's correct.


   In January, 2005, where was your son?


   My son was in college.


   So he had already graduated from Dover High School?


   Yes, that's correct.


   And in January, 2005, where was your daughter?


   She was in school.


   What grade?


   She was in grade ten.


   So you will agree with me that this biology curriculum really only affected, as far as the statement was read, ninth-grade biology students?


   No, that's not true.


   So the statement was read to other classes?


   No, but it would affect all the students at the school.


   Well, listen to my question. This policy provided that the statement was read to ninth-grade biology students. Do you agree with that?


   I agree it was read to ninth-grade biology students.


   Okay. And your daughter had already graduated from the ninth grade?


   That's correct.


   So at the time that this policy was implemented, both of your children were out of the ninth grade?


   That's correct.


   Neither one of them would be subject to the statement being read to them. Is that correct?


   That's correct.


   Okay. Now, you indicated to your lawyer that you got involved because of newspaper articles that you read?


   That's correct.


   Okay. Now, is it an accurate statement that in the year 2004, prior to you becoming a plaintiff in this case, you had never attended a single board meeting --


   That's not correct.


   -- in 2004?


   In 2004, that's correct.


   Okay. Just please answer my question and then your attorney can ask you to explain if he wants to. So in 2004, prior to this -- prior to you becoming a plaintiff, you never attended a board meeting in that year?


   In that year.


   Okay.


   Before that, yes.


   In 2003, you never attended a board meeting. Is that correct?


   No, I had attended board meetings previously.


   I didn't ask you that question. I asked you, in 2003, did you attend a board meeting?


   I'm going to say I don't remember which board meetings I attended.


   In --



    Objection. Arguing with the witness and beyond the
scope --



    I'm asking questions.



    Excuse me, and beyond the scope
of direct.



    Wait, wait. One at a time. Let him finish, Mr. Thompson. 
Finish the objection.



    Objection, arguing with the witness and beyond the scope 
of direct.



    I don't find it beyond the scope of direct. It's 
appropriate cross-examination. It's overruled on that basis. We're 
getting argumentative only because I think the witness and counsel are
talking over each other. Each of you let the other finish before 
you start talking.



    I apologize, Your Honor.



    There's a great temptation in cross-examination to talk 
over. That happens. So let's get a question on the floor. Why don't 
you restate your question, Mr. Thompson.



    Okay.



   BY MR. THOMPSON



   Is it true that you did not attend a board meeting in the year 2003?


   I'm not going to say that's not true. I don't remember which board meetings I attended. I did attend some before '04.


   Is it true that you didn't attend a board meeting in 2002?


   I told you I don't remember which year I -- I attended board meetings during the construction project, so when that was, that's when I was there.


   And that was the year 2000, was it not?


   I don't remember.


   Mrs. Smith, I'm going to hand you --


   Your Honor, may I 
approach the witness? 



    You may.



   BY MR. THOMPSON


   Mrs. Smith, I'm going to hand you what purports to be your deposition that was taken by Patrick Gillen. I would like you to direct your attention to Page 13, and I would like you to read out loud the question that you are asked starting with Line 18 and all the way down through that page and then going on to the next page, Page 14, and reading from Line 1 through Line 4. And please read it out loud.


   You want me to read out loud starting on 18?


   Line that starts with Q, which represents the question that was asked by Mr. Gillen, and A represents your answer. Would you please read it out loud.


   "Let me just make sure I get you there and go on. You attended board meetings. Give me a sense of which ones you attended. They were not the board meetings" --


   Now give me your answer. So that the record will reflect, that was the question and now your answer, starting with Line 21.


   You want me to read it?


   Yes.


   "They were not the board meetings, and we were not discussing intelligent design. When I went to some board meetings, it was several years ago. We were discussing the building project, and it has nothing to do with the intelligent design."


   And then go on to the next page, and the question that Mr. Gillen asked you starting on Line 1?


   "That is all I am trying to get a sense for. I am not familiar with the dates for the building project. Was that '03 or '02?"


   "Was that 2003 or 2002," is that right, the question?


   That's correct.


   Okay. And what was your answer?


   "I would say more like 2000."


   So was that an accurate reflection of your memory at the time that the deposition was taken?


   Yes.


   Okay. Does that seem right that the board meetings that you attended prior to being a plaintiff in a lawsuit was in the year 2000?


   If that's what I said, that's what I recalled at the time, yes.


   So based upon the response that you gave to your attorney, is it a fair statement that you began as a plaintiff in this case in December, 2004, without ever having personally witnessed the actions of the Dover School Board as they debated and enacted the policy on which this lawsuit is based? MR. HARVEY: Objection. It's compound. 


   BY MR. THOMPSON


   Can you answer that question? 



    Now, wait. She's not 
going to answer it until I rule on the objection. Elaborate on your 
objection.



    I think there are several predicates to that question. He
asked whether you were present at any of the board meetings while 
they debated and then enacted this resolution, and I'm not aware of 
any testimony that they debated the resolution.



    Well, I think it's a fair characterization that there was 
discussion about the
policy. I'll overrule the objection. You can answer
the question. Do you recall the question?



    No.



    Let's have the question read back, please.



   (Previous question read back.)



    That's correct.



   BY MR. THOMPSON


   In fact, all of the information upon which you -- strike that. In fact, the information that you were getting about what the school board was doing in 2004 came from newspapers. Is that correct?


   That's correct.


   And I believe in your deposition you indicated that you looked at the morning newspapers almost on a daily basis?


   That's correct.


   And when you were looking at the morning newspapers, that you got very upset about what you read regarding the Dover School Board and the policies that they were debating. Is that correct?


   That's correct.


   What were the two -- what were the newspapers that you were looking at during this time?


   I read the Daily Record every morning.


   What about the York Dispatch?


   Not regularly, no.


   Okay. So that it would be a fair statement that even though what you were reading in the newspapers got you upset, that you never personally attended one of the board meetings in that year?


   That's correct. There were personal issues in my life at that time where I was not able to do that.


   And it is true that you never spoke to any of the members of the Dover School Board about the issues that concerned you. Is that correct?


   That's correct.


   You never called them. Is that correct?


   That's correct.


   You never e-mailed them. Is that correct?


   That's correct.


   Did you write letters to the editor about what the school board was doing?


   No.


   So that the first time that the school board would know that you were upset with their actions is when they learned of you being a plaintiff in this lawsuit. Is that correct?


   That's correct.


   Okay. Now, did you ever speak to any of the teachers at Dover High School before you became a plaintiff in this case?


   No.


   Did you ever speak to any of the reporters who had written the stories about what the Dover School Board was doing during this time?


   No.


   Did you ever receive any minutes or notes about what the Dover School Board was doing during this time?


   No.


   You never sent anyone e-mails or any other communication regarding this issue. Is that a fair statement?


   That's a fair statement.


   In fact, one of the issues in this case is this book Of Pandas and People. Is that correct?


   That's correct.


   You never looked at the book Of Pandas and People before you became a plaintiff in this lawsuit, did you?


   I didn't feel that I could look at it. It was in -- I guess it was in the library at the school, but I was not aware if we could go in the school library and take out books or not.


   Well, did you make any effort to go and look at it?


   I really wasn't interested.


   Now, your attorney referred to a newsletter that you received in February. Do you have a copy of that newsletter in front of you?


   Yes.


   And I believe you indicated that you thought the newsletter was sent in February, 2002?


   No.


   Excuse me, 2005. Excuse me.


   Correct.


   Okay. Could we have that newsletter? I would like you to read from that newsletter on the top left-hand side in that box. Read it out loud, please.


   "This newsletter has been produced to help explain the changes in the biology curriculum. Unfortunately, a great deal of misinformation has been spread regarding this policy. We hope this publication will help those interested better understand the substance of the policy while eliminating any misconceptions some may have about the curriculum change. We sincerely appreciate your understanding on this matter."


   Thank you. It was through this policy that you first learned about the statement that was going to be read. Is that correct?


   No, I believe -- no, I heard about it before.


   But did you actually see the statement before?


   I don't think so.


   So this was the first time that you saw the statement that was going to be read to the students in the ninth-grade biology class. Is that correct?


   I believe so.


   Okay.


   As far as I can tell.


   And so this newsletter was actually providing information to the residents of Dover as to what the actual newsletter was -- excuse me, what the actual statement was going to say. Is that correct?


   Yes.


   Okay. So you had no problem with the fact that the newsletter was being produced, even though you had a problem with the policy. Is that correct?


   No.


   Now, there's a bit of street wisdom, and I don't know whether you agree with this or not, and that street wisdom is, don't believe everything you read in the newspapers. Have you ever heard that?


   Yeah, I've heard that before.


   Okay. And so if you don't believe everything in the newspapers, don't you think before you became a plaintiff in a lawsuit that you should have taken some personal action to verify whether things that were produced in a newspaper were really accurate?


   I did talk to people in the district, other people in the district.


   Who did you talk to?


   People that I work with, other people in the district.


   But you never even saw the policy until that newsletter came out. Is that correct?


   I got my information from the newspaper, yes.


   And the newspaper. Now, have you ever had involvement with newspapers before? Have you been interviewed? Have you been interviewed by news reporters before?


   No.


   But would it be a fair statement to say in the normal experience that newspaper reporters might spend five, ten, or fifteen minutes interviewing a person and then only put one line of that interview in an article?


    Objection. No foundation that she has any experience as 
referred to in the question.



    Do you want to respond to that Mr. Thompson?



    Well, I think it's common experience and it's knowledge,
it's common sense.



    Now I think we're going afield. I'll sustain the 
objection. We're now clearly outside the scope of direct, the 
objection is sustained. 



   BY MR. THOMPSON


   Well, you said that you were upset by the policy because it conflicts with your religion?


   I said I was upset about it because I didn't find a problem with it with my religion. It does not -- I'm getting confused. I have a problem with it because my daughter came home from school and she says to me, What kind of Christian are you, anyway? So that's why I have a problem with it.


   If you recall your deposition -- and I certainly will give you an opportunity to look at it if you don't recall it -- the incident that you're referring to, also you received information that your daughter was a member of a Bible club. Right?


   Yes.


   And up to that point, you were not even aware she was a member of a Bible club. Isn't that correct?


   That's correct.


   And that it was -- she had a lot of friends who went to Protestant fundamental churches. Is that correct?


   Yes, she does.


   And she received that information from her friends, her Protestant friends in school or in the Bible club. Isn't that correct?


   I would assume that's where she got her information, from the Bible club at school. Plus they talked about it.


   And the fact that someone believes in intelligent design does not make that inconsistent with the Catholic faith, does it?


   I spoke to my deacon about this situation, and all I know is what he told me.


   Is he a theologian?


   He's a deacon at St. Rose Catholic Church.


   Do you know if he has any particular expertise in Catholic theology?


    Objection again. Beyond the scope of direct, Your Honor.



    She brought the issue up of religion, Your Honor, and 
I'm exploring that.



    Well, I think it is beyond the scope, again, the 
colorable scope of direct, and I'll sustain the objection. This is 
not a deposition. This is testimony in the case-in-chief, and we're 
afield.



   BY MR. THOMPSON


   Now, the book Of Pandas and People, you don't mind that book being in the library, do you?


   No, I don't have a problem with it being in the library.


   You heard yesterday, if you attended the deposition of -- excuse me, the testimony of Mr. Rehm's, that the science teachers, in a compromised move, had agreed to put Of Pandas and People in the science class. Did you hear that? 


    
Objection, Your Honor. Mischaracterizes the testimony.



    In what sense?



    I believe Mr. Rehm testified
that the teachers did not agree to put the materials in the science 
class. 



    Your Honor, my understanding in --



    And --



    Now, wait, Mr. Harvey. Let Mr. Thompson speak. One at a 
time.



    Your Honor, my memory, if it serves me correct, Mr. 
Rehm testified that they had reached a compromise with some of the 
board members that they were going to allow the book Of Pandas and 
People in the science classroom.



    My recollection is that he may not have used the word 
"compromise," he may have used the word "concession." I'm not sure 
that there's a distinction as it applies here. I'll overrule the 
objection. Did you hear Mr. Rehm's testimony yesterday?



    Yes.



    Well, then go ahead.



   BY MR. THOMPSON


   Whether it's "concession" or "compromise," did you hear that the teachers had agreed to put Of Pandas and People in the science classroom?


   I don't remember exactly what he said yesterday.




    No further questions, Your Honor.



    All right. 
Thank you,
Mr. Thompson. Any redirect? 




    No, Your Honor.



    
Then, ma'am, you may step down.

That will complete your testimony. And I don't think we have any 
exhibits to enter, do we? 



    That's correct, Your Honor.
P127 is already in evidence.



    You may call your next 
witness.



    Your Honor, the plaintiffs call
to the stand Plaintiff Christy Rehm. 


   CHRISTY REHM, called as a witness, having been duly sworn or affirmed, testified as follows: 



    Your Honor, again, may I make sure that she has the binder 
of exhibits? 



    You certainly may. 



   DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. HARVEY


   Please tell us your name.


   Christy Rehm.


   Are you married, Mrs. Rehm?


   Yes.


   Tell us the name of your husband.


   Bryan Rehm.


   Please clarify for us one important question, and that is, exactly how old are your children?


   My children?


   Yes.


   I have a 14-year-old daughter, Alix, an eight-year-old daughter Paige, a seven-year-old son Ian, and a 15-month-old son Lucas.


   And where does your family live? I mean your immediate family, you and your husband and your children.


   Rock Creek Drive, Dover, Pennsylvania.


   And how long have you lived there?


   Approximately five years.


   And had you lived in Dover previously to that in your life?


   Yes. I grew up in Dover, I attended Dover High School, graduated from Dover High School. My family, my extended family, lives in the Dover area, including my grandparents, my parents, and other relatives. My parents currently still live in the Dover area.


   And please tell us where your children are right now in school, the grades, please.


   Grade level, okay, yes. The oldest is in ninth grade, the next one is in the third grade. I have a first-grader, and then obviously the baby is not in school yet.


   And the oldest three children, do they attend the public schools in Dover?


   Yes. Two of them, my oldest is at the high school, the Dover High School, and then I have -- the next one is at the Weiglestown Elementary School. And my son is hearing-impaired, so he is charged with the education of Dover School District, meaning that they have to provide his education, but he actually attends classes at a hearing-impaired classroom.


   And your daughter that's in the ninth grade, is that at the Dover High School?


   Yes.


   And is she taking biology now?


   Yes, she is.


   Please summarize for us your educational background.


   As I said, I graduated from Dover High School. I attended Lock Haven University and Millersville University. I received a BA from Millersville University in English, and I also have a degree in journalism, as well. I later got a teaching certification and attended Penn State University where I received my master's degree.


   Do you work outside the home?


   Yes, I do.


   What do you do?


   I'm a teacher, an English teacher.


   Where do you teach?


   In a public school system outside of York County.


   And what grade do you teach?


   High-school level, so tenth through twelfth grade generally.


   Did there come a time when you learned that the Dover Area School District Board of Directors was considering a change to -- was considering approval of a biology textbook?


   Yes.


   Do you remember when that was?


   It was sometime in 2004. It was prior to the June meetings because my husband was a teacher at the school, so I often heard things that he would come home and tell me. So I knew that there was some discussion over the biology book, so sometime before that. I can't tell you exactly when.


   Did you attend a meeting of the Dover Area School District Board of Directors on June the 7th of 2004?


   Yes, I did.


   And why did you attend that meeting?


   Well, because, like I said, my husband had been a teacher at the school, and he had sort of been directed by the high school principal to attend the meeting in support of the different things that were happening. There were other textbooks that were being adopted and controversies over them, and, you know, it was sort of a rallying thing, I suppose. And I went along because I live in the district, I pay taxes in the district, my children attend school in the district. I'm an educator, and I was curious about what was happening.


   And can you recall anything that happened at that meeting on June the 7th?


   I recall a lot of things that were happening at that meeting.


   Please tell us what you can remember about that meeting.


   Okay. Some of the -- I attended a lot of meetings, so facts blur together. What I do recall, I -- as my husband said yesterday, I was pregnant at the time, so I have some reason to remember certain things. But I recall Barrie Callahan speaking about the textbook. It was the first time that I had really ever been around Barrie Callahan, so she strikes me -that memory strikes me because my mother had known her previously. And she was speaking about the textbook, just questioning them. I don't remember her exact words. But I do know that she was upset with them about this textbook, the textbook process, the students not having a textbook. Obviously it was very distressing for her that the students in the biology class did not have a textbook.


   Do you remember if any board member spoke back to her in response to her questions?


   Yes. Bill Buckingham said to her -- and I know Bill Buckingham because at the time he lived down the street from my grandparents and for many years lived there. And he responded to her basically saying that there's, you know, a problem with the textbook, it needs to be balanced, comments about laced with Darwinism, it needed to be balanced with creationism. Comments of that nature is what he had said to her.


   Do you remember --


   I'm sorry.


   I'm sorry.


   And I distinctly recall Barrie Callahan sort of throwing her hands up in the air and saying, Oh, so this is about evolution. That was very distinct in my mind, just her mannerisms as she said that.


   Do you recall a young man by the name of Max Pell speaking at that meeting?


   Unfortunately I was in the restroom at the time that Max Pell was speaking because -- my husband told you I was eight months pregnant. I was actually nine months pregnant and due any day, so I spent quite a deal of time in the restroom. But I had excused myself to go to the restroom just after Barrie did this whole thing. In fact, I may have been walking out of the room at the time and in close proximity to her. And so at the time when Max was speaking -- I believe that there were people who spoke in between she and Max Pell. But at the time when he stood to speak, I was in the restroom and sort of coming back from the restroom, so I don't really recall exactly what his comments were. I know him because he was my husband's student, though.


   Do you recall any other board members saying anything during the course of any discussion about the biology textbook?


   Well, like I said, I was reentering the room from the bathroom, so I was sort of in the doorway. And I obviously didn't know what Max had said to the board but that he had spoken to the board. So the comments that were coming back were, I assume, directed at him. But there were comments from Bill Buckingham about brainwashing, and I remember hearing that, the whole thing about brainwashing, because it dealt with going to college and getting this education and students who go to college become brainwashed. And I was very upset by that because I attended college and I don't feel as if I were brainwashed. And also I recall Alan Bonsell making a comment about, you know, there are only two theories, there's this theory evolution and there's this theory creation, and if you're teaching only those two theories, then there's not a problem.


   Do you recall anything else Mr. Bonsell said?


   At this time, no.


   Do you remember anything else that was said by any members of the public at that meeting?


   At that meeting. Currently, I don't.


   I'd like you to take a look at what's been marked as Exhibit P46. It's in the notebook in front of you. Just take a moment to look at it.


   Okay.


   Do you have that in front of you?


   Yes.


   Have you ever seen it before?


   This article, yes.


   Did you see it at or around the date that it was published?


   Yes, I did.


   What's the date on it?


   The date is June 9th, 2004.


   Who is the author?


   The author is Joseph Maldonado.


   And can you tell us what publication its from?


   Yes. It is from the York Daily Record.


   Now, did you just have an opportunity to read it just a moment ago?


   Just now I skimmed it, yes.


   Take another moment to look at it if you need to, but I would like to know whether it refreshes your recollection about anything else that happened at that meeting.


   Yes.


   Okay. Tell us what else -- after looking at that article, do you remember anything else that happened at the meeting?


   Yes, I do recall Bill Buckingham making comments about, you know, the apes and monkeys -coming from apes and monkeys. And I also --



    Your Honor, again, objection. It appears she's going to be 
reading from the article with her testimony.



    I'm sorry.



    It's a little hard to do this, but we'll sustain the 
objection. Mr. Muise's objection is well-founded. Let me explain how 
we can do this, how we must do this.

When your counsel asks you the question, you may review the article, 
take a look at it, see if it refreshes your recollection. It's 
important that having refreshed your recollection, if it jogs something
or re-creates a memory, that you testify in answer to Mr. Harvey's 
question. Do not look back and read from the article as you're 
testifying, please. All right?



    Yes. Sorry.



   BY MR. HARVEY


   Now, do you remember anything else that happened at that meeting?


   Yes. I remember comments about our country being founded on Christianity and not needing to teach the faiths of other people. And I remember talking to my husband about that in the car ride home, as well, because we're both teachers and I was -- when I hear things like that, I immediately think of my students, and I was thinking about the diverse group of students that I have in my classroom, who all have different religious viewpoints, and how difficult that would be to tell one student that, you know, we can't express your belief, but we can express that person's belief in the classroom. And I just find those things to be very upsetting when I hear things like that being said.


   Now, do you remember if you attended another meeting of the Dover Area School District Board of Directors approximately a week later on June the 14th?


   Yes, I did.


   And why did you attend that meeting?


   Well, because there wasn't really a clear resolution to what had occurred the previous meeting. In addition, I was very angry when I left the June 7th meeting just because of the demeanor of the school board and the things that were being said. And, honestly, I thought that maybe it would set me into labor because of, you know, being angry, and at that point in time I was past my due date, in addition to caring about my children's education and everything I said previously.


   Now, tell us what you can recall of the June 14th, board meeting.


   Again, there were many, many things that happened at that school board meeting, and I can tell you that I was very much interested in what was being said. And so I pretty well made sure, at the beginning of that meeting, which went on for quite a long time, that I wouldn't miss anything, so I took care of my bathroom needs beforehand. And I recall the meeting starting with Bill Buckingham sort of -- I'm sorry, Trudy Peterman spoke about her -- actually, hold on. Give me one second to think about this. Yes, Trudy Peterman spoke. She was the high school principal at the time. And I know that she spoke because the thing that she said seemed very similar to her graduation speech that she had said just previously. My sister had graduated that year, and I attended the commencement ceremony. And she had talked about Visigoths and things like that that she had spoken about in her commencement speech. And essentially she was speaking up for the teachers and the biology textbook. And after she had spoken, Bertha Spahr also spoke, as well. She's the department chairperson, and, actually, I had her as a science teacher. And she presented information to the board, documents, that she and I believe other members of the science department had researched on, I guess cases that had been set down before on creationism in the public school system or something of that nature, just to show them that, you know, if they were still considering this idea, that they might, I don't know, be met with some litigation or something. After she spoke, Bill Buckingham had made a comment to her about her -- where did she get her law degree from. Can you give me one second? I'm wondering if I'm getting my meetings mixed up.


    Objection, Your Honor. This is running into a narrative.



    Well, I think it's still responsive to the question. Do 
you want to put a question on the floor?



    She was just thinking.



   BY MR. HARVEY


   Did you need to think and change your testimony in any way?


   I just wanted to make sure that I wasn't getting my meetings mixed up.



    You can finish your answer. Do you want to 
finish the answer, or is that your answer?  


    Yes, that's 
my answer. I'm sorry, I recall something else, as well. I recall 
Charlotte Buckingham, who is Bill Buckingham's wife, speaking at that 
meeting, as well.

Essentially there were a lot of people in the community who were 
standing and speaking at this meeting because they wanted to warn the
school board that they were not in favor of any legal action coming
against the community, against the school board. They were afraid for
their tax dollars.

And Charlotte Buckingham I recall really being the only person who 
got up to stand in defense of the school board, and she was Mr. 
Buckingham's wife, or is Mr. Buckingham's wife. And she quoted 
Scripture, Old Testament, actually, all Old Testament Scripture about 
why the school board is right, basically. And she also talked about 
school prayer and the need for school prayer in that speech that she
had prepared.

In addition, Reverend Warren Eshbach stood
up and spoke at that meeting, as well, sort of urging the school 
board not to proceed with this. And many other members of the 
community spoke, as well.



   BY MR. HARVEY


   Did your husband speak?


   I recall my husband speaking. In fact, he hadn't prepared to speak, but he was very upset, as many people in the audience were, and he stood up to speak. I don't remember his exact comments, but, again, it was a warning to the school board and -actually, not necessarily a warning, but just sort of reiterating what science teachers do in their science classes and how there is really no conflict here with the textbook.


    
Objection, Your Honor. It's a
narrative. The question was, did your husband speak.



    Yes,
he spoke.



    My next question was going to
be simply if you could tell us what -- but I think she's already 
told us what she can recall her husband said.



    Well, that answered the next question. That moots the 
objection, and you can move to the next question.



   BY MR. HARVEY


   Do you remember Bill Buckingham speaking at this meeting?


   Oh, yes. There were not many meetings where Bill Buckingham did not speak. And, actually, at that meeting -- I believe the beginning of the meeting was an apology, actually, which he had prepared in advance apologizing to the members of the community if he had said anything that offended them. And it seemed to me sort of an inappropriate apology because -- or maybe "inappropriate" is not the correct word, but not a sincere apology because almost immediately after he had given his apology, he started doing the same things that he had always done, which was to demean the public, to say negative comments.


   Do you remember specifically anything he said?


   Yes. He made comments like, years ago someone died on the Cross, can't we take a stand for Him. He made comments about the liberals in black robes coming and taking away our freedoms in the school. He made many, many comments at that meeting.


   Now, did you attend any other meetings of the Dover Area School District Board of Directors that summer?


   No, we didn't attend that summer.


   And did you attend any meetings that fall?


   Yes.


   Did you attend the meeting on or about October the 18th of 2004?


   Yes, we did.


   And can you just tell us briefly what you can recall about that meeting?


   Well, there was -- at this point in time it was the change in the curriculum that was being proposed and voted on that evening. And, again, this was a heated meeting. There were many members of the community who stood to speak, science department members. Jen Miller spoke, although I didn't really know who she was at the time. I recall her speaking on behalf of her biology course. I recall Bertha Spahr again speaking. My husband again spoke at this meeting. And, again, other members of the community spoke at that meeting.


   Did you and your husband stay for the whole meeting?


   No, we didn't.


   Now, during the time that you were at the meeting, did you hear any discussion among the board members about the reasons for the proposed change to the biology curriculum?


   During the board meeting?


   Yes.


   No.


   Did you attend a meeting the following week, on or about November the 2nd, 2004?


   Yes.


   And can you remember anything from that meeting?


   Yes. I recall Noel Weinrich who had spoken at other meetings, as well, was upset about the vote that they had taken and was sort of urging them to rethink the vote.


   Do you remember anyone requesting access to --


   Oh, yes.


   -- a tape of the October 18th meeting?


   Yes. Because my husband and I had left early -- we had our infant with us and he needed to get home -- we had heard that there were comments that were said after we left about teachers should be fired if they don't listen to the school board's directive. And we wanted to hear that for ourselves, so my husband had previously requested the tapes and then at that meeting he stood again to request the tapes. In addition, Barrie Callahan had stood to request the tapes at that meeting, as well.


   And do you remember if any members of the school board spoke in response to either your husband or Barrie Callahan with respect to the subject of the tapes?


   Yes. Barrie -- I'm sorry, Alan Bonsell said very clearly that -- Dr. Nilsen had said something, as well, about the tapes, that it's not policy or something like that, that this is not past practice, this is not policy, this is not standard policy to release tapes to the public. And additionally, Alan Bonsell made the comment that they couldn't release the tapes because after speaking with their solicitor, there would possibly be legal issues, ramifications if they released the tapes.


   Now, I'd like to just ask you just a couple more questions. Mrs. Rehm, do you believe that the board's actions with respect to the change to the biology curriculum have caused any harm to you?


   Yes, absolutely.


   And can you please tell us how you have been harmed?


   Well, in numerous ways. First, as a teacher, professionally, I feel that teachers in general are harmed, myself, as well, because there's a dichotomy here in what they're saying about this statement that they have passed on intelligent design as they're not teaching it. On the other hand, they've said that it enhances state standards and critical thinking. In my mind, everything that you do in a classroom is teaching. And I don't necessarily think that's just in my mind. I believe that's true of all educators. The way I dress when I go to work tells my students something. The statements I make or the statements that I do not make in my classroom tell my students something. So I think we're charged with, you know, having an ethical decision to make when we walk into the classroom, the things that we say and the things that we do, and so I think that's very important. But you can't say when you walk into a classroom, you're not teaching. And if that's what's happening in the Dover school system and my children are in that school system, that they're routinely establishing practices that is not teaching in the classroom, then that's shameful. In addition, I have a child who is in the ninth-grade biology class, and this has spilled over into other classes. It's not just the biology class that has been affected by this. My child has heard comments from other students, school board member students in her classroom about evolution being against their religion, and do you think we came from monkeys, how can you think we came from monkeys. It used to be a weekly occurrence. It's now a daily occurrence, and my daughter comes home from school upset about these comments that are being made to her and, you know, is looking for guidance on how to respond to these questions. Also, intelligent design is not a scientific concept. It's a religious concept. And because I don't subscribe to that particular brand of religion, I feel that I and my daughter, my family, are being ridiculed, and my daughter feels the pressure. I reserve the right to teach my child about religion. And I have faith in myself and in my husband and in my pastor to do that, not the school system.


    Thank you. No further questions.



    All right. Before we start the cross-examination, I think 
this will be an appropriate time for our afternoon break. We'll take 
that break for approximately 20 minutes, no longer than that, and we 
will return with Mr. Muise's cross-examination of the witness. We'll 
be in recess. (Recess taken.) 



    Mr. Muise, you may 
cross-examine. 



    Thank you, Your Honor.



   CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MUISE


   Good afternoon, Ms. Rehm. Your oldest child is 14 years old. Is that correct?


   Yes.


   And your child's name is Alix?


   Yes.


   And Alix is presently in the ninth-grade biology class at Dover High School?


   Yes, she is.


   And my understanding from your husband's testimony yesterday is that she hasn't yet reached the section in biology that deals with evolution. Is that correct?


   Yes. After looking at her syllabus, it appears that evolution comes later in the course. I wouldn't say at the end, but closer to the end of the course.


   And so she hasn't heard this one-minute statement be read in the class yet?


   She has not, no.


   Now, you testified about two -- or several meetings, but two meetings in particular I want to ask you some questions about. And those are the meetings that occurred on June 7th of 2004 and then the meeting on June 14th of 2004. Okay?


   Yes.


   I believe you described these meetings as involving some heated exchanges between some board members and the public. Is that correct?


   Yes.


   And it's my sense from your testimony that the majority of the statements that you appear to find objectionable were statements made by Mr. Buckingham?


   No. There were statements made by many of the school board members that I found objectionable. It's just that Mr. Buckingham always seemed to say very inappropriate things. But in addition, Alan Bonsell said very inappropriate things, and Noel Weinrich said very inappropriate things. It's just that I didn't give much credit to Noel Weinrich's comments because he would say things like, Darwin's at least what, 60 years old, a theory becomes a theory if you say it over and over again. Those are the kind of things he would say. But they were all very outspoken.


   Now, the controversy on the June 7th and June 14th meeting was surrounding the selection of a biology textbook. Correct?


   June 7th and June 14th?


   Yes.


   Yes.


   And the biology textbook that was in question at the time, I believe it was the version of the Miller-Levine biology book. Is that your understanding?


   It very well could be. I'm not sure what the edition in debate was.


   But the statements that you testified to and the controversy that you were describing was surrounding the purchase or selection of that particular biology book for the school district. Correct?


   Yes, it was definitely the Miller-Levine textbook. I don't know what the edition was or the copyright date or any of that information, but I do know that it was that biology textbook that was being debated very rigorously.


   And, in fact, the school district purchased the Miller-Levine biology book to be used as the primary text for the ninth-grade biology class. Correct?


   Yes.


   And that would be the textbook that your daughter Alix will be using?


   Yes, with the dragonfly on it.


   She already has the book?


   She has the book, yes.


   Have you looked through it?


   Have I looked through the book? Yes, I have looked through the book.


   Do you have any objections with the book?


   No, I don't.


   She wasn't given a copy of Pandas and People, was she?


   No, she was not.


   So the only required textbook for that class was that biology book that was creating all the controversy on June 7th and June 14th. Is that correct?


   To my knowledge, the only required book is that book, in addition to supplemental materials that the instructor has.


   Now, you made a comment in your direct testimony that intelligent design conflicts with your brand of religion.


   Yes.


   Is intelligent design another brand of religion?


   No. What I'm saying is that I believe intelligent design, as well as the ideas of creationism, in particular, the Young Earth creationists, which, I'm sorry, I don't agree with. don't agree with the age of, you know, the earth and their opinion. There are things that I do not believe. And I do not believe the same things as the board members who adopted that statement.


   And so your understanding is intelligent design is the same as Young Earth creationism?


   Well, to my understanding, intelligent design just presupposes that everything in life is too complex, that it has to be designed. But I also know that creationism was used repeatedly with the term -or, I'm sorry, not with the term "intelligent design." Intelligent design came up after the fact. But I do know that, in its original context, it was creationism that was being used. And when I think of creationists, again, I think of Young Earth creationists, and I do not subscribe to that way of thinking.


   And so, again, you're associating Young Earth creationism with intelligent design?


   There is a connection in my mind, yes.


   If you could be shown that intelligent design does not require the action of a supernatural creator and, in fact, is based on observable and empirical facts, would you change your opinion?


   I believe that if intelligent design could be proved to be scientific, then I would believe it would belong in a science classroom. Would I believe it? I don't know that scientifically I'm qualified to say, you know, that I believe many scientific concepts because I'm -- I'm not a scientist. But I suppose that if intelligent design could follow scientific methods, then -- and it were proven to be scientific by scientists, it was accepted by scientific communities, then I would have no reason not to accept that.


   I want to explore your understanding of what has actually taken place in this ninth-grade biology class that your daughter Alix is presently taking. Is it your understanding that Darwin's theory of evolution will be taught in this class pursuant to the Pennsylvania academic standards?


   I would hope so. And as far as I know, that is the case, because Dover says that it is a standards-based school, and so I assume that when they say that and they say that students have to pass certain material before they can be advanced into new material, that they would have to be abiding by the state standards.


   And I take it from your answer you have no objection to that?


   To following state standards, no, I have no objection.


   And so it's your understanding that the Pennsylvania state standards require students to learn about Darwin's theory of evolution and eventually take a standardized test of which that theory is a part of it?


   Yes, the PSSA test, yes.


   And you have no objection to that?


   To my students taking a PSSA test, well, you know, I -- being an educator, I'm not in love with PSSA tests or standardized tests. But if you're asking me if I object to my daughter taking a standardized test with that information on it, of course not. I would hope that they would provide lots of academic information on those tests.


   And is it your understanding that because Dover is a standards-driven district, that they're going to focus their class time on preparing students to achieve proficiency on those standard-based assessments?


   I'm sorry, can you repeat that?


   Yes. Is it your understanding that because Dover is a standard-based district, the class instruction is going to focus on preparing students to achieve proficiency on those standard-based tests that we were just describing?


   Not only is that my understanding, but that is what I would expect.


   And you have no objection to that?


   No, I don't.


   Is it your understanding that because Dover is a standards-driven district, that students will not be tested on the intelligent design theory?


   As I know it and as it is written, there is no test on intelligent design.


   And from your previous answer, I believe you do understand that the Dover School District purchased, for its ninth-grade biology class, the edition of the Miller and Levine biology book. Correct?


   Yes.


   And you have no objection to that book being used in the class?


   No, I do not.


   Is it your understanding that this biology book provides thorough coverage of Darwin's theory of evolution?


   Actually, did you ask me if it's my understanding or if --


   If it's your understanding. I mean, you have to testify about your knowledge, ma'am.


   Okay. What I've seen of actually Darwin in the textbook, in my opinion, is actually quite slim. It follows state standards, of course. And, actually, to me, it gives more of a historical context of Darwin than anything as far as what I have read. And I did look at that section, and I looked basically through the book. And it appears to be historical mainly in context of Darwin's time frame and what he did for science.


   Has Dr. Miller left the courtroom?


   Maybe we should ask. So if you're asking me if I feel it's enough or if it's -- I'm not sure what it is you're asking me about that. I feel, actually, that there are topics that probably could be explored in more detail, but I understand that there are limitations within any textbook that you have to hit on core concepts. I believe that core concepts are covered, but I think that, in my opinion, what I've looked at, it's historical context.


   Is it your understanding that it presents Darwin's theory of evolution in a manner that is consistent with its standing in the scientific community?


   As much as I know about the scientific community -- and, you know, you have to remember that's not my discipline. But as much as I know about what the high school science standards say, it would be in standing with that. As far as the scientific community, I really can't go there, because I know that there is a lot more about Darwin than is in that textbook. I mean, I can absolutely say that without knowing everything about Darwin or knowing everything about science.


   Do you have any reason to believe that what's in the biology book is inconsistent with what the scientific community --


   Absolutely not, no. No, I would have no reason to believe that.


   Is it your understanding that the book Of Pandas and People was placed in the library for students to review?


   Yes.


   It's your understanding that no student was required to read any portion of the Pandas book?


   Right, just as no student is required to read anything that's in the library unless they choose to.


   You have no objection to Pandas being in the library?


   No, absolutely not. I don't object to Pandas being in the library, just like I don't object to, you know, any of the other books being in the library, as long as -- as long as it's the appropriate level and -- you know, I mean, there is a censorship process that goes into putting books in the library. So, I mean, as long as it has gone through that process and it's approved to be there, I don't have a problem with it being there.


   The statement that the school district developed to be read as part of the biology class, is it your understanding that the statement that was drafted in January, 2005, or for use in January, 2005, was modified in June of 2005? Are you aware of that?


   Can you say that again?


   I'm sorry, I wasn't that precise. The original statement that was drafted by the Dover School District was modified in June of 2005. Are you aware of that?


   Well, I'm aware that that statement was modified several times. In fact, there were different drafts of that statement that I had seen. The exact modification, are you telling me that from the time that they had approved it in October, it was modified before it was read in January? Because it was again read in, I believe, like May, and there was a change from that point in time, unless I'm incorrect and that is the change that I'm thinking of.


   Were you aware that there was a change made to the statement at one point to indicate that Pandas was in the library, as well as additional resources in the library addressing intelligent design?


   Yes, I am aware that there was a change.


   Are you aware of that change?


   Yes.


   Is it your understanding that some of these additional books that were put in the library are actually critical of intelligent design?


   Actually, I am, because I recall them -- an organization actually sending the library those books, because there was controversy in those books being put in there, too. And there were many members of the community who had called to see whether those books had actually gotten there or not, into the library, because we weren't certain that those books were going to be allowed in the library, permitted in the library.


   They're in the library?


   Well, a parent -- the books that are critical to --


   Yes.


   I'm assuming that they had gotten there.


   You never checked?


   There were a couple instances where friends of mine had tried to check on the status of the books in the library but were not permitted to go in at that time. So I am only assuming that those books are there now because I am being told that they are. But as for myself walking into a library and seeing them there, I did not.


   Do you have any objection to these additional books being placed in the library?


   No, I do not.


    No 
further questions, Your
Honor.



    Any redirect?



    No, Your Honor.



    Ma'am, you may step down. That
will complete your testimony, and you may call your next witness. 



    Your Honor, plaintiffs call to the stand Plaintiff Beth 
Eveland. 



   BETH EVELAND, called as a witness, having been duly sworn or affirmed, testified as follows:



    State your name and spell 
your name for the record. 



    Sure. My name is Beth 
Eveland, B-e-t-h, E-v-e-l-a-n-d. 



   DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. HARVEY"


   Please state your name.


   Beth Eveland.


   And where do you live, Ms. -- is it Ms. or Mrs.?


   Mrs.


   Mrs. Eveland.


   Colonial Road, Dover, Pennsylvania.


   And how long have you lived there?


   I've lived there approximately eight years now.


   Are you married?


   Yes, I am.


   Do you have children?


   Yes, I do.


   How many children do you have?


   Two.


   And how old are they?


   I have a seven-year-old daughter and a five-year-old daughter.


   And what schools do they attend?


   They attend the Leib Elementary School in the Dover School District.


   And do you have plans for your children to continue to attend public schools in Dover?


   Yes, I do.


   And what are those plans?


   To continue keeping them, you know, going through the Dover School District.


   And do you work outside the home?


   Yes, I do.


   And please tell us what you do.


   I am a legal assistant.


   Now, did there come a time when you learned that the Dover Area School District Board of Directors was discussing or considering approval of a biology textbook?


   Yes.


   And when was that?


   It was approximately June, 2004.


   And do you remember how you learned that?


   I had read an article in the York Daily Record.


   Now, I'd like you to look at what's been marked and is in the notebook before you as P46.


   All right.



    Excuse me, Your Honor. I just want to make sure 
that this testimony, to the extent it relates to the newspaper 
article, is subject to our standing objection.



    Well, what is 46?



    It's a June 9th article from the York Daily Record.



    Well, I don't know what the question is. It may relate 
to your standing objection, but we'll note that. We'll hold that 
thought, and you can proceed with the question, because all we have 
is the exhibit that is a newspaper article. So let's proceed with 
the question. There's no need to restate your objection, unless you 
want to
put a finer point on the objection. But at this point, proceed with 
your question.



   BY MR. HARVEY


   Did you read this article on or around June the 9th of 2004?


   Yes, I did.


   And following reading this article, did you attend any meeting of the Dover Area School District?


   Yes, I did.


   And approximately when was that?


   Approximately the end of June through the present.


   What I'd like to know is if you attended a meeting after this June 9th -- excuse me, this board meeting that's reported in this article?


   Yes, I did.


   And what was the date of the next board meeting that you believe you attended?


   It would have been approximately June 15th, June 16th.


   And can you tell us whether -- when you remember that you attended this board meeting?


   When I remember that I attended this board meeting?


   Yes.


   In preparation for trial, looking back through my deposition testimony and thinking about things that had happened, it occurred to me that, you know, I was there at that June meeting.


   And what is it about that June board meeting that made you remember that you were there?


   I remember Casey Brown, one of the board members at the time, discussing, during the board meeting with the board, that she felt they were, I'm paraphrasing, treading, you know, on -- they were treading closely to violating the Pennsylvania State Board of Education regulations on religion in the classroom.


   And do you remember anything that was said by any board members at that meeting that you attended in June of 2004?


   Yes, I do.


   What do you remember?


   I remember Bill Buckingham making the statement, years ago somebody died on the Cross, can't someone take a stand for Him.


   Now, what was your reaction to what you saw and heard at the board meeting on or about -- I think you said June the 15th or 16th? I think, for the record, it's established that it's June the 14th. But tell us, what was your reaction to what you heard?


   I was shocked. I was just utterly shocked.


   And did you do anything in response to that?


   Yes, I did. I had wrote a letter to the editor.


   And was that before or after you attended that board meeting?


   I wrote a letter to the editor -- I believe it was actually written before I attended the board meeting, but it wasn't published until after that June 14th board meeting.


   And where did you send that letter to the editor, which newspaper?


   I submitted it to the three local newspapers, York Daily Record, York Sunday News, and York Dispatch.


   And did you do anything, before you sent it to those papers, with the content of the letter?


   Yes, I did. I had e-mailed a letter basically stating the same thing in my letter to the board president at the time, Alan Bonsell, a copy to Dr. Nilsen, and I mailed a copy to Mr. Buckingham.


   Now, please turn to what's been marked and is in the notebook before you as P56.


   Okay.


   Do you have it in front of you?


   Yes, I do.


   And can you tell us what it is?


   It looks to me to be a copy of a letter to the editor that I wrote.


   And I'm going to ask you to read this letter into the record.


   Okay.


    Objection, Your 
Honor. This letter is hearsay.



    Say it again. I'm sorry.



    Objection, hearsay.



    Why is it hearsay?



    She's going to be reading in the letter, the contents of 
the statement. It's an out-of-court statement. They're obviously 
offering it for the truth of the matter.



    Who wrote the letter?



    She wrote the letter.



    Overruled.



   BY MR. HARVEY


   Please.


   "As a parent in the Dover Area School District, I must convey my shock and utter dismay at William Buckingham's comments regarding the search for new biology texts for the high school. I am especially upset with Mr. Buckingham's comments as quoted in Wednesday's York Daily Record: 'This country wasn't founded on Muslim beliefs or evolution. This country was founded on Christianity, and our students should be taught as such.' This statement is in direct contradiction to the mission statement of the Dover schools. "In partnership with family and community to educate students, we emphasize sound, basic skills and nurture the diverse needs of our students as they strive to become lifelong learners and contributing members of our global society. What a slap in the face to many of the parents and taxpayers of the Dover area. How sad that a member of our own school board would be so closed-minded and not want to carry on the mission of Dover schools. "His ignorance will not only hold back children attending Dover area schools, but also reinforce other communities' views that Dover is a backwards, close-minded community. If it was simply a matter of selecting a text that gives two contradicting scientific theories equal time, that would be an entirely different matter, but it's not. Creationism is religion, plain and simple. "Mr. Buckingham's comments offend me, not because they are religious in nature, but because it is my duty to teach my children about religion as I see fit, not the Dover Area School District during a biology class."


   Now, that letter was actually published in the paper?


   Yes, it was.


   And did you see it in the paper?


   Yes, I did.


   And did you read any response to your letter in the paper?


   Yes, I did.


   And can you tell us who submitted -- whose response did you read in the paper?


   It was a published response noting Heather Geesey as the author.


   And who is Heather Geesey?


   She is a member of the Dover Area School Board.


   And her response letter was published in what newspaper?


   I believe it was either the York Dispatch or the York Daily Record.


   And please turn to what's been marked in the notebook before you as P60.


   Okay.


   Does that help you remember, looking at it, what newspaper it was published in?


   It was published in the York Daily Record.


   And what is that that's marked as P60?


   It is a letter from Heather Geesey to the editor in response to my letter.


   And did you see it at the time?


   Yes, I did.


   Please read that into the record.


    Objection, Your Honor. Our standing 
objection, as well as she has not established a foundation that 
actually Heather Geesey wrote this article. She has no personal 
knowledge.



    Let me first view the exhibit. Do you want to respond to
the objection?



    Yes, Your Honor. We submitted an exhibit list to the 
other side, and we were told there were no authentication issues with
respect to any of this, so there's no question about the 
authenticity of this, nor do I understand -- and further, it's not 
offered for the truth of the matter asserted, so there's no hearsay 
objection.



    Well, on the authentication,
let's take it in two parts. My understanding was that there was not 
an authentication issue. That does refresh my recollection on that 
point. Now, if there's not an authentication issue, we'll move on to 
the second --



    Actually, Mr. Muise may be at a disadvantage here. I did
agree with Steve that we -he has an affidavit from someone who has 
indicated they have collected newspaper articles. So with respect to 
that issue, there's no objection. I have agreed that she has 
authenticated what she did to produce this article.



    All right. Very well. So there's no question then that 
this represents a letter written by Ms. Geesey to the York Daily 
Record. Is that correct from the defense standpoint?



    That is correct, Your Honor. That's the representation 
that has been made in an affidavit, and I accept it.



    Now, counsel for the plaintiff is indicating the letter as
being produced on the issue of -- or to show notice, obviously, on 
the effect prong. Do you want speak to that?



    Your Honor, I would also note that it's an admission of 
a party opponent.


    And I think it would come in under that basis, but that 
would be the hearsay justification or the justification that would get
around a hearsay objection. But the purpose of the letter is under 
the second prong. Is that correct?



    It is for that purpose, and it's also to show that Ms. 
Geesey talked about the statements that were made in this letter at 
this time. That's one of the issues in the case.



    So it could go to truth inasmuch as it's an admission. 
Is that correct?



    Exactly.



    All right.



    Your Honor, as you know, we've got the question of 
whether or not these are admissible for effect. Our position on that 
we've articulated. I don't know if you want us to argue at greater 
length or brief, but it's hearsay to the extent it's offered for the
truth of the matter asserted as effect.



    Well, I think that you reserved that argument. We've had 
that discussion. I'm inclined -- because it's a bench trial, I'll admit
it conditionally. Whether I'll consider it in my ultimate 
determination will be a function of the
argument that I'm allowing you to reserve and make.

But for the purpose of this witness, conditionally and subject to 
additional argument from counsel, we'll admit the letter and you may 
proceed.



    Thank you, Your Honor.



   BY MR. HARVEY


   Please read the letter.


   "This letter is in regard to the comments made by Beth Eveland from York Township in the June York Sunday News. I assure you that the Dover Area School Board is not going against its mission statement. In fact, if you read the statement, it says to educate our students so that they can be contributing members of society. "I do not believe in teaching revisionist history. Our country was founded on Christian beliefs and principles. We are not looking for a book that is teaching students that this is a wrong thing or a right thing. It is just a fact. All we are trying to accomplish with this task is to choose a biology book that teaches the most prevalent theories. "The definition of 'theory' is merely a speculative or an ideal circumstance. To present only one theory or to give one option would be directly contradicting our mission statement. You can teach creationism without it being Christianity. It can be presented as a higher power. That is where another part of Dover's mission statement comes into play. That part would be in partnership with family and community. You as a parent can teach your child your family's ideology."


   And what was your reaction to that letter when you read it in the paper, Mrs. Eveland?


   That really concerned me.


   Why?


   That made me question, first of all, was she writing on behalf of just herself or on behalf of the whole school board since it was signed Dover Area School Board Director, and I sensed a religious intonation.


   Now, I'd like you to tell us, did you attend board meetings in after June?


   Yes, I did.


   And which board meetings did you attend?


   All of them.


   And do you believe that -- were you at the meeting on October the 18th of 2004?


   Yes, I was.


   And did you hear the board discuss any reason for adopting the proposed curriculum change?


   No, I didn't.


   Do you feel that you've been harmed by the board's actions?


   Yes, I do.


   And please tell us how you believe that you have been harmed by the board's actions.


   I feel it's my duty, as a parent, to introduce any kind of faith-based concept to my children, not the Dover Area School District. While my children are small, you know, this policy is district-wide, and there's nothing to prevent it from being trickled down into the elementary level. It's just something that I feel strongly that my husband and I, that's our task to bring faith to our children.



    Thank you. No further questions. 



    All right. 
Cross-examine, Mr. Muise. 



   CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MUISE:


   Good afternoon, ma'am.


   Good afternoon.


   You said your oldest child is seven years old?


   Yes, she is.


   And what grade is she in?


   She's a second-grader.


   So she's seven years out from attending the ninth-grade biology class at Dover High School?


   That's correct.


   Now, you have an interest in science. Is that correct?


   Somewhat, yeah.


   I believe in your deposition you indicated in your day-to-day events you try to spark your children's interest in science?


   Yes, I do.


   And you believe it's important to make science interesting for your children?


   Yes, I do.


   You don't have any specific training in evolutionary theory. Correct?


   No, I don't.


   I want to get a sense for what your understanding is of what is going on in the ninth-grade biology class that your daughter will be attending several years from now. Is it your understanding that Darwin's theory of evolution is going to be taught pursuant to the state academic standards?


   It is my understanding, yes.


   And that students will be tested on subjects that are based on those standards, including the theory of evolution?


   Yes, that is my understanding.


   And it's your understanding that the students will not be tested on the theory of intelligent design?


   That is also my understanding, yes.


   Is it also your understanding that it is a standards-based district, so classroom instruction will focus on achieving those standard-based assessments in which they will eventually be tested on?


   Yes.


   And intelligent design is not part of those standard-based assessments?


   As far as my understanding, yes, it is currently not.


   And these board meetings that you attended in June, the controversy was surrounding the purchase of a biology text for the class. Correct?


   Yes.


   Do you know which book it was that the controversy was about?


   I believe at the time it was the Miller and Levine biology text.


   And isn't it true it was Mr. Buckingham's objections to that biology text which precipitated some of these statements that you were referring to in your direct testimony?


   That's correct.


   And what action did the board actually take with regard to the biology book?


   Well, with regard to the biology book?


   With regard to the biology book for the ninth-grade class.


   It's my understanding that they held off on the vote in June because there was a new edition that was going to come out. And they wanted to get the most current book instead of wasting money on an older book.


   And so they ended up purchasing the version?


   Yes, they did. Yes, they did.


   Have you seen that book?


   I have briefly looked at it.


   Now, my understanding is you went to these board meetings in June because of the controversy over the biology book?


   Yeah, part of it.


   You said you just skimmed this biology book that was at the center of the controversy?


   It was available on the table where the board was sitting, and I went up front and took a look at it for maybe a minute or two.


   In those two minutes that you spent actually looking at the book that was the center of this controversy, was there anything in that two-minute review that you saw that you objected to?


   No. I just basically looked through the table of contents quickly.


   Is it your understanding that that book that was eventually purchased by the Dover Area School District covers the theory of evolution consistent with its status in the scientific community?


   That's my understanding, yes.


   Now, these meetings that you attended, would you describe them as being fairly contentious?


   Fairly contentious, yes.


   Shouting matches, I believe the term you used in your --


   I think a circus-like atmosphere would be quite appropriate.


   Now, is it your recollection that the first time the Pandas book was mentioned was during the July meeting that you attended?


   I remember it being mentioned. I cannot give you a specific date. The dates run together after a while.


   How about mentioning the theory of intelligent design, do you recall when you may have heard that theory first mentioned?


   To the best of my recollection, it was first mentioned June, July sometime. At the time it seemed that creationism and intelligent design were kind of used hand-in-hand interchangeably.


   During these public comments that precipitated some of those statements that you were referring to, was it your impression that Mr. Buckingham and Mr. Noel Weinrich were taking the comments as being personally directed toward them?


   Not only them, but the vast majority of board members, yes, they were.


   So they saw them as being personal attacks against them?


   Yeah.


   Now, the first meeting you attended in July, you spoke with Joe Maldonado. Correct?


   Yes. And I believe the first -- as I testified earlier, the first meeting I actually had attended was the second meeting in June.


   I guess my question is, the first meeting that you attended in July --


   Yes, I had spoken to Joe Maldonado.


   And who is Joe Maldonado?


   It's my understanding he is a reporter with the York Dispatch.


   And during this conversation, he approached you and asked if you had read or were familiar with some comments that he had quoted in the paper, and those were Mr. Buckingham's comments. Correct?


   Yes, he had.


   And he asked you what your thoughts were about those comments?


   Yes, he did.


   And he also asked you if you would ask for Mr. Buckingham's resignation on the spot. Correct?


   That's correct.


   And you told him that you didn't think that was going to happen?


   I told him that I would just sit back and wait and see what happened.


   And your sense for why he asked you this was that you thought he was trying to elicit something sensational for his paper?


   There is that possibility of trying to elicit something sensational, but I think he was also trying to prepare for what might happen later on in the meeting since they tended to denigrate in shouting matches.


    May I approach this witness, Your 
Honor? THE COURT: You may.



   BY MR. MUISE


   Ma'am, I'm handing you what is your deposition testimony that you gave on March 28th of 2005. And I'd like you to read, if you look on Page 64, read from Line 18 through 25, and then we'll continue on the next page once you finish that.


   "The first board meeting I attended in July he approached me before the meeting started and asked if I had read the -- if I was familiar with the comments that were quoted in the paper. I told him just simply what I had read. "He asked me what I thought about it, and I said, The comments, I don't feel that is appropriate. He asked me if I asked for Mr. Buckingham's resignation on the spot. I told him I didn't think that that was going to happen."


   And the next line, Line 3, is a question which states, "When Mr. Maldonado asked you that question, do you have a sense for why?" Could you plead read your answer, which is Lines 5 through 8.


   "Yeah. Based on what was quoted in the paper, yeah, I think he was trying to elicit some sensational whatever for the paper. It was my first board meeting. I just wanted to sit back and see what would happen."


   Were you testifying truthfully during that deposition?


   Yes, I was, to the best of my knowledge.


   You've had additional discussions with Mr. Maldonado about the happenings with the board. Correct?


   Yeah.


   And you also had conversations with Ms. Heidi Bubb?


   Yes.


   And she's a reporter?


   Yes.


   For which paper?


   She's a reporter for the Dispatch. I said earlier Mr. Maldonado was for the Dispatch. I believe he is actually a reporter for the Daily Record.


   I believe you testified in your deposition that after the complaint was filed, you actually spoke with Ms. Heidi Bubb quite a bit?


   Yes, at the board meetings. Well, I don't recall whether or not I did say after suit was filed, but I'll take your word for it if it's in my deposition testimony.


   I'm sorry, ma'am, could you --


   I said, I don't recall whether or not I did say that I had spoken with her after suit was filed. I mean, if that's what it says in my deposition testimony, that's what I testified to at the time.


   Let's go to Page 68 of your deposition transcript, ma'am.


   Okay.


   On Line 16, the question was asked, "Can you recall generally when you spoke with her?" And in reference of the -- if you look above, it's referring to Ms. Heidi Bubb. Can you read what your answer was on Lines 17 through 21?


   "She would generally approach me after the meetings. Especially after the complaint was filed, I spoke with her a lot. She would ask me occasionally my thoughts, public comment, what I thought -- why I thought the board was doing what they were doing, those such things."


   Now, back in July or August, 2004, you had communications with the National Center for Science Education?


   Yes.


   I believe you joined the Listserv?


   Yes.


   And you also had a discussion with them regarding an interview with the AP?


   It was a brief e-mail exchange, but yes.


   Did you do that interview?


   No, I did not.


   Ma'am, do you understand that the statement that's going to be read to the students in the ninth-grade biology class was modified in June of 2005?


   Yes, I do.


   And do you understand that that modification indicated that the book Of Pandas and People would be in the library along with other resources regarding intelligent design?


   Yes.


   And is it your understanding that those other resources included books that are actually critical of intelligent design?


   Yes.


   Do you have any objection to that?


   No, I don't.


   Now, you testified about the harm that you've received based on these statements and the comments and the actions of the board. I'd like you to go to your deposition transcript, if you could, to Page 101.


   Okay.


   If you'd read from Line 16, which presents the question, until Line 2 of the next page.


   "Question: Is there anything else that the board has done here in connection with the curriculum change that provides a basis for your complaint? "Answer: From what I can see from attending the board meetings, I don't know, because so much of the curriculum debate takes place at non-public meetings that I am not aware of. And when board members are questioned at meetings, they really don't answer any questions. So it gives this whole illusion of secrecy to the process, which, you know, may be a big part of the problem. It may just be a big misunderstanding."


   Were you testifying truthfully when you answered that question?


   Yes, I was.


    No further questions, Your Honor.



    Redirect?



    No, Your Honor.



    All right. Then, ma'am, we thank you. You may step down. 
This is probably an appropriate time for us to end today. We will 
do so by admitting the exhibits that we need to, if we need to.

P46 is the York Daily Record article. I assume we're going to 
withhold admitting that pending further proceedings. Is that right, Mr.
Harvey?



    Yes. We'll move it in after another witness, Your Honor.



    P56 is the witness's letter to the editor. Are you moving
for the admission of P56?



    Yes, Your Honor.



    Now, you've stated an objection to that. The objection is 
noted. You don't have to restate it. And I will note the objection. 
Do you have any additional objections you want to make to that?



    Not at this time, Your Honor. That's it. 



    All 
right. It's admitted subject to the defendants' objection. P60 is the 
letter from School Board Member Geesey to the editor again. I think 
I noted that it was admitted. Over the objection already of the 
defendants, we'll reaffirm that, but you can make any other objections
you want to on the record, but I think that was thoroughly argued 
at that time.



    That's correct, Your Honor.



    All right. We will reconvene a little later tomorrow, at 
9:30 a.m., because of some matters that I must attend to, and the 
session will go longer. With everybody's indulgence, I would expect to
go to approximately 5 o'clock, no later than 5 o'clock tomorrow to make 
up for the time that we lose during the morning session. So we will
stand in recess until 9:30 a.m. on Thursday. We thank you all.



   (Whereupon, the proceedings were adjourned at 4:20 p.m.)

  





  

CERTIFICATION

I hereby certify that the proceedings and evidence are contained fully
and accurately in the notes taken by me on the within proceedings 
and that this copy is a correct transcript of the same.

Dated in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, this 28th day of September, 2005.

Lori A. Shuey, RPR, CRR Official Court Reporter United States 
Courthouse Walnut Street, P.O. Box 983 Harrisburg, PA 17108-0983 
(717)215-1270


    
        
            
No. 01-618
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF ATTORNEY GENERAL, Washington, D.C., THE UNITED STATES
Wednesday, October 9, 2002 The above-entitled matter came on for oral argument before
the Supreme Court of the United States at 10:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES: LAWRENCE LESSIG, ESQ., Stanford, California; on behalf of the
Petitioners.
THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ., Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.;
on behalf of the Respondent.


We'll hear argument now in Number 01-618, Eric
Eldred v. John D. Ashcroft. Mr. Lessig.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF LAWRENCE LESSIG ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS

Mr. Chief Justice, may it please the Court: Petitioners are
before you this morning challenging Congress's 1998 Sonny Bono Copyright Term
Extension Act, which extended the term of subsisting and future copyrights by 20
years. Petitioners submit such a blanket extension of existing terms exceeds
Congress's power under the Copyright Clause and it violates the First Amendment.
Now, the Government has responded to petitioners' argument in a way that betrays a
simple but fundamental confusion. The Government has argued as if petitioners had
advanced a general theory of the Copyright Clause, or a general constraint under
which Congress must operate. That is a mistake. This case is about limits to an
enumerated power. It's not about general power of Congress to exercise its copyright
authority. Petitioners have advanced a particular interpretation of the only express
limits in the Copyright Clause designed to give those limits meaning.

Mr. Lessig, I'll tell you what bothers me about your position,
and that is that Congress has extended the term so often through the years, and if
you are right, don't we run the risk of upsetting previous extensions of time? I
mean, this seems to be a practice that began with the very first act.

Justice, we do not believe that the very first act extended
terms at all. Speaking technically, which for a lawyer means speaking accurately,
the 1790 act did not extend a Federal term. The 1790 act granted a term for works
that already existed in precisely the pattern that the English parliament had done
in the Statute of Anne in 1710, and that the English parliament did with monopolies,
general monopolies in the statute.

But there have been a number of extensions since. 

That's right.

Even if you can get over the first hurdle. 

That's right. That's the important hurdle, and we'd like to
jump that first, but the other ones, Justice, you're right, in 1831 and in 1909
Congress extended terms in a way that is inconsistent with the strongest form of the
test that we have advanced. Those extensions, however, were never challenged in any
court and certainly not considered by this Court. 

Well, doesn't that itself mean something, Mr. Lessig? The fact
that they were never challenged, perhaps most people, and perhaps everybody felt
there was no basis for challenging them.

Well, Mr. Chief Justice, it's absolutely true that this case
is here because of a fundamentally important changed circumstance that makes the
Framers' limitations on the Copyright Clause much more significant. This is the
first time I can remember where this Court has been pointed to changed circumstances
as a reason to reaffirm the Framers' values, because for most of this period, Mr.
Chief Justice, the only people who were regulated by copyright law under the
Copyright Act would have been commercial publishers, primarily, and now for the
first time the scope of this exclusive right has expanded because of the changed
technology of the Internet to reach an extraordinarily broad range of creativity
that never would have been imagined before. Now, it's not the case that the earlier
extensions were not questioned on constitutional grounds. In fact, Melville Nimmer,
in the consideration of the 1976 act, suggested they were plainly under --

Well, I'm talking about court challenges, not academic
challenges.

That's right, there is no court challenge.

Mr. Lessig, your theory, as I understand it, regardless of
changed circumstances or not, your basic theory, which on your argument would have
been appropriate at any time historically, is that there has at least got to be the
possibility of a kind of a causal connection between the extension and the promotion
or inducement for the creation of some subsequent work, but why is that any more
plausible a reading of the Promotion Clause than simply a reading that says the
Promotion Clause requires that there be a general scheme in place, which overall
tends to promote or induce, and part of one aspect of that scheme can be that the --
that at the discretion of Congress the period of protection is extended from time to
time? Why do you require -- why do you say the clause has got to be read by this
kind of specific causation theory as opposed to a kind of systemic theory of
promotion?

Justice Souter, the reason is exactly related to the point I
began with, that this is a case about limits and not about discretion. If it's not
the case that this Court -- 

No, but that's -- I mean, that's the issue in the alternative reading.

That's right.

And why is it a limit case, rather than a discretion within a
general scheme kind --

That's right. 

-- of clause?

Because if this Court does not adopt a reading of the form
we've offered, then there is no limit to the ability of Congress to extend
subsisting terms.

Do you say the same thing for scope? This case is about
duration, but Congress from time to time -- in fact, you mentioned --

Yes.

-- the expanded applications of copyright, and Congress itself
extends the scope from time to time.

Would you make, as far as, say, translation rights that didn't
exist before, the same argument?

I -- 

Why -- or -- and if you wouldn't, why not? 

I -- no, Justice Ginsburg, we would not, and the reason is
again related to the method we have adopted to interpret "limited times." We have
not said that "promote the progress of science" is a general and independent
constraint on the Copyright Clause authority. We've said it must be looked to to
interpret the scope of "limited times," and unless retrospective extensions are
forbidden, it will eviscerate the meaning of "limited times." That does not occur in
the context of the scope of exclusive right, nor in the context of the power to
secure. If that's -- 

Could we then go back to Justice O'Connor's question? To make
that very specific, if we agree with you, does that mean that we would, in
principle, have to hold the 1976 extension unconstitutional? I mean, in 1976,
Congress extended the term from 28 years renewable once, to life of the author plus
50 years. Now they're extending it life of the author plus 70. If the latter is
unconstitutional on your theory, how could the former not be? And if the former is,
the chaos that would ensue would be horrendous.

Justice Breyer, under our theory as we've advanced it, you're
right; the 1976 act would be unconstitutional. Whether this Court would apply such a
holding in this case to that act is a question that would have to be resolved under
the retrospective -- 

Maybe we ought to find another theory, then. Is there any
--

Justice, the theory, which would advance the aim of limiting
times in a way that is enforceable, is only applicable in the case that we brought
before you here to the '98 act, and would not necessarily be applicable under the
'76 act for the reasons the Government has offered. We would not advance this
argument, but the Government has offered an argument in a parallel case that
suggests a distinction between the '76 act and this case. That's not been briefed
here. It's been grounded in their claim that the treaty power creates some special
power. We wouldn't advance that claim, but the point is there are a number of issues
that the '76 act -- 

In essence, you think it's at least arguable that the '76 act
had various positive aspects to it in terms of the purpose of the Copyright Clause
that this act lacks?

That's certainly true, and we also believe that, for the
reasons averted to by amicus AOL in this case and the reasons you've just suggested,
the disruption in that context under the retrospectivity cases Ryder and
Reynoldsville Casket Company would be sufficient to fit it within the, quote,
"severe disruption exception" to the retrospectivity.

Well, I suppose implicit in the argument that the '76 act,
too, should have been declared void, and that we might leave it alone because of the
disruption, is that for all these years the act has impeded progress in science and
the useful arts. I just don't see any empirical evidence for that. 

Justice, we are not making an empirical claim at all. Nothing in our
Copyright Clause claim hangs upon the empirical assertion about impeding progress. 
Our only argument is, this is a structural limit necessary to assure that what would 
be an effectively perpetual term not be permitted under the copyright laws.

Well, perhaps I misunderstood. I thought the whole thrust of
your is a great First Amendment force silenced, that's being thwarted. 

Well, the thrust certainly --

I thought
that's the whole underpinning of your case.

It's certainly the case that we are asserting, in light of the changed circumstances,
that the opportunity to build upon works within the public domain is a fundamental
First Amendment interest, and that the First Amendment values, vital speech interest
at stake of this case, is that the public domain be permitted as a source for
cultivating work about our culture without unnecessary legal restriction. 

Well, but you want more than that. You want the right to copy
verbatim other people's books,don't you? 

We want the right to copy verbatim works that should be in
the public domain and would be in the public domain but for a statute that cannot be
justified under ordinary First Amendment analysis or under a proper reading of the
limits built into the Copyright 16 Clause.

Mr. Lessig, on your First Amendment argument I don't see where
the retroactivity-prospectivity comes in, because -- I follow your argument under
the Copyright Clause, but if you're saying that the time is too long, the public
domain should get this stuff sooner rather than later, would you explain to me how
your prospectivity-retrospective line fits into your First Amendment claim? MR.
LESSIG: Justice, we've argued that it would be inappropriate in this case for the
Court to consider the prospective line until they decide whether the case, whether
the prospective and retrospective is severable, and we submit it's an easy case to
show that it's not.

On the First Amendment --

Yes.

-- argument you're making that as, I take it, an argument
independent of, it doesn't hang on your Copyright Clause argument.

That's right. I --

That's right.

And so let's just take -- let's say that was your only
argument in this case. How does that tie into a retrospective-prospective
distinction?

Well, the strongest First Amendment argument is about the
retrospective extension, because of a fundamental change that occurs when Congress
extends subsisting copyrights, rather than when Congress legislates prospectively.
When Congress legislates prospectively, it has no way to know who's going to benefit
from its extension. It is simply evaluating what the term should be prospectively in
a way that we presume this Court should presume is legitimate under the First
Amendment. When it legislates retrospectively, it is, in effect, looking at
particular authors and estates of authors who are before Congress asking for this
extension, and it's choosing between these particular authors and the public at
large. Now, it may be that in exercising that choice in this case, Congress made an
objective valuation of who would be in the best position to advance the interests of
promoting the progress of science, or any original -- 

But you -- under your intermediate scrutiny test we would not
be hypothesizing what might have been in Congress's mind. Your First Amendment test
is a stringent one. You have to have an important purpose, and the means that you
use is necessarily tied to that purpose. If you take that position, I don't see how
you make the retroactive-prospective line work.

Well, the line comes from deciding what the First Amendment
interest is, and if this Court heed the First Amendment interest off of this
difference between selecting who gets the benefit of 20 years of extension and just
simply legislating in a general way prospectively, then this Court could hold, with
respect to the prospective, that it's not even necessary to raise the intermediate
scrutiny in that context, but again, for Ashwander reasons we don't think that this
Court should address the prospective aspect of the CTEA even under the First
Amendment. 

Even though Congress's pattern has been to treat all authors
equally? I mean, the reason that it's been prospective and retrospective is that
people should be, people who hold copyrights should be subject to the same regime
and not have some people who got their copyrights the week before the law passed
treated differently than people who got it the week after.

Well, Justice, that certainly is the reason the Government
offers for this pattern. It, of course, doesn't explain actually what Congress has
done and, even in this case, when a work has passed into the public domain, then
there is precisely the same week before/week after problem that you advert to, that
extension does not extend to all subsisting works, it only extends to all subsisting
copyrights. So that line is already drawn in the practice that Congress has adopted,
but our point is, the only way to assure --

But Congress has -- or, you're not disputing that Congress has
always made these extensions, both retroactive and prospective?

Well, in 1831 it did not. In 1831 it granted the benefit of
its extension to a subset of all subsisting copyright holders. 

Let's stick with 1976.

In 1976 -- 

Because that was what you said -- that's -- the pattern under
the CTEA is identical to the one in the '76 act.

That's absolutely right, yes. So they have extended it to
both. But our argument is, unless this Court draws a line about this extension, then
for the reasons Judge Sentelle suggested below, there will be no limit to Congress's
ability to -- 

Judge Sentelle did not deal with the First Amendment, as far
as I --

That's right. 

-- recall. 

That's right. 

And so I'm asking you -- perhaps I'm missing it. I haven't seen
where you get the prospective-retrospective in connection with your First Amendment.
It seems that you're just saying there that 70 years is an unreasonable -- is not necessary.

Yes. 

And it doesn't serve an important purpose.

Precisely--actually, we're not saying anything about the 70 years in this case even
under the First Amendment, because we believe it's unseverable, but --

But I thought you were saying that if you accept the Copyright
Clause argument, then you have a way, in effect, of devaluing the Government's claim
of its important interest and important objective when you get to the First
Amendment intermediate scrutiny analysis. Whereas if you don't accept the Copyright
Clause claim, then, in order to make the First Amendment analysis we've simply got
to say, well, gee, is the promotion of useful art and so on more important than the
public domain, and can we say that that allows a distinction between 50 years and 70
years? We're pretty much at sea, so I thought your Copyright Clause argument was
necessary to give us some handle with which to deal with the First Amendment. 

Our Copyright Clause argument is certainly a way of framing
why extensions of subsisting terms cannot be seen to promote the First Amendment
interest of speech at all. 

Okay. Let's assume we don't -- for the sake of argument here,
let's assume we don't accept the Copyright Clause argument. Do you have an
independent First Amendment argument in your brief? 

Yes, of course we do. 

Okay, and it is -- tell me in a sentence or two what it is. I
mean, at that point I'm where Justice Ginsburg is.

Yes. The First Amendment argument we've argued in our brief
is with respect to the retrospective extension, and the First Amendment argument is,
that needs to --

No, but that's the Copyright Clause argument, and it seems to
me you're saying, okay, we then apply that in First Amendment analysis, which allows
us to make a coherent intermediate scrutiny argument. If we don't accept the
Copyright Clause retrospectivity argument --

Yes. 

-- then what is your First Amendment argument?

That's right, I'm sorry, Justice. What I'm saying is not that
it's the retrospectivity that makes the First Amendment argument troubling -- I
mean, that drives our First Amendment argument. All I'm saying is, we have addressed
the retrospective portion of CTEA, and so I'm saying in the retrospective portion of
CTEA you would apply ordinary, intermediate First Amendment review, and you would
ask --

Well, this Court really has not -- if you say that the
Copyright Clause is not violated, I don't think there are examples where this Court
has then resorted to First Amendment analysis to invalidate the same act.

Well --

I mean, this would be quite a new proposition.

Well, Justice O'Connor, the First Amendment is always an
independent limitation on what otherwise would be legitimate exercises of
congressional authority, so this --

Yes, but the Framers seem adopted these two things at the same
time --

That's right.

-- in effect. 

That's right, and if -- 

And I think there are not to have examples that I can think of
where we have said, well, we'll analyze it under the Copyright Clause, but if that
fails we'll turn to the First Amendment.

Justice, that's right. If only we had the Framers' copyright
before us, because of course, again remember,the exclusive right the Framers spoke
of was the right to print and publish. It didn't include the derivative rights, it
didn't include the display rights, and it certainly --

Right. It has expanded very much, and they also envisioned a
very short term, and I can find a lot of fault with what Congress did here -- 

That's right.

-- because it does take a lot of things out of the public
domain that one would think that someone in Congress would want to think hard
about.

That's right.

But having done that, it's very difficult to find the basis in
the Constitution for saying it isn't a limited term. It's longer than one might
think desirable --

Right.

-- but is it not limited?

Well, if it is limited, then there is no limit to the ability
of Congress to extend subsisting terms, and that fundamentally destroys the
objective that the --

The rule against perpetuities might jump in there at some
point.

Right, and we submit the Framers had something very different
in mind than the rule against perpetuities. The point is, if this is permitted, then
there is no limit to the ability to extend terms, and that is precisely contrary to
what the Framers had in mind when they worried about this problem originally. What
was the problem they were solving? It was, as this Court stated in Graham --

Well, I could agree with you, in terms of policy, that this
flies directly in the face of what the Framers had in mind, absolutely. But does it
violate the Constitution?

Well, if it flies in the face of what the Framers had in
mind, then the question is, is there a way of interpreting their words that gives
effect to what they had in mind, and the answer is yes.

Well, you know, certainly what is happening in the country
today in the way of congressional -- under the Commerce Clause is totally different
than what the Framers had in mind, but we've never felt that that was the criterion.
What the Framers thought of, there weren't steamboats, there weren't
railroads.

That's right.

We've said there was a general grant, and that Congress was
free to run with it in many respects.

In many respects, Mr. Chief Justice, but, as this Court has
also said, there are limits to what Congress can do under the Commerce
Clause.

But isn't --

Can I ask you about one of the limits, just focusing on the
Copyright Clause and the progress of science and useful arts? In your view, does
that -- is that limited to encouraging creativity by authors and inventors, or does
it also include the distribution of materials that might not otherwise be
distributed, like old films and so forth? 

We're happy to adopt a broader interpretation of what promote
the progress is about, within the general framework that the Framers established in
light of the English practice, which was a quid pro quo. The ability to facilitate
distribution -- 

So that if the quid pro quo is that we can facilitate
distribution of some old film by an additional monopoly grant, you'd think that's
permissible?

So long as the grant is conditioned upon the distribution. So
long as the grant --

In other words you could have -- right now, if Congress
decides to have a law, and this law is going to give copyrights in 1) the Bible, 2)
Shakespeare, 3) Ben Jonson, and the reason they do it is that they think that that
would lead publishers to produce those and distribute them, and they're right, they
will, okay? In your view, that's perfectly constitutional?

No, that's the view of the Government's, Justice Breyer. My
view is --

Well, I thought that was the question you were getting, and I
thought you were saying -- I must have misunderstood. I thought you were saying that
was constitutional.

No. What we were saying is, if Congress wants to permit
restoration of films, for example, an issue that's been well briefed here, Congress
can say, if you restore the film, then the restoration gets a copyright so long as
it satisfies originality as outlined in Feist, and it gets a copyright for a period
of time. But this Court's opinion in Graham and in Feist made clear that it could
not extend copyrights to works in the public domain. The Government doesn't concede
that, but we stand on that as a way of understanding why this Court --

So your answer to Justice Stevens is no, they cannot give a
copyright purely for purposes of dissemination to publishers, is that right?

No. 

Oh, all right. 

They cannot give a copyright purely for purposes of
distribution to publishers. (

They would need to satisfy all of the implied limitations
that this Court has expressed in the context of this, the most carefully limited
clause in Article I, section 8. It is one of the --

Mr. Lessig, the clause says, Congress shall, and suppose
Congress decides in this expanded world of ours that it's going to make certain
changes and other changes from our treaty partners. Suppose it well, the Germans led
the fight for 70 years in the European Union, we'll go with that, but we're going
demand says,fair use. Now, why couldn't that fit within the promotion of
knowledge?

Justice Ginsburg, we have no quarrel with the objective of
harmonization fitting within the "promote the progress of science" understanding
subject to constitutional limitations. If France adopted a rule that said you
couldn't grant copyrights to hate speech, we could not harmonize with that rule
consistent with our First Amendment and similarly, as Mary Beth Peters testified
before Congress, ours is the only Constitution that has an express limitation on
terms. That's got to mean something, and if it means that we are limited in our
ability to agree with the Europeans as they continually expand the term in light of
their own vision of what copyright is about, then that's the meaning of a
constitutional restriction. This Court's interpretation of "limited times" could, of
course, eviscerate that term of any meaning, but under the principle of enumeration
as this Court has articulated it, this Court should interpret that clause in a way
that gives its terms effect in a simple way. Just as a limited addition print is not
a limited -- is not limited if each time a customer comes in a new print is printed,
so, too, a limited term is not limited if each time copyright holders come to
Congress they can extend the term.

That's right.

The analogy doesn't seem to work.

That's right. All that I'm suggesting is, here is a plain
meaning of the term that gives effect to the constitutional limit in a way that
assures that, in fact, the limit is respected, contrary to the Government's
argument, which, in effect, permits Congress the power perpetually to extend terms.
If I may reserve the remainder of my time. 

Very well, Mr. Lessig. General Olson, we'll hear from
you.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSON ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT

Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: The
questions today, especially the initial questions, suggest one of the many
insurmountable obstacles to petitioners' petition in, position in this case. That is
that the first Congress explicitly gave copyright protection to the authors of any
books already printed as well as explicitly the owners of existing copyrights.
Thereafter, in 1831, 1909, 1976, and 1998, and in numerous private copyright bills
and temporary extensions of the copyright law and in repeated patent law revisions,
Congress extended the terms of Federal copyright and patent protection of subsisting
works. As this Court explained 100 and some years ago in its Burrows-Giles opinion,
such constructions are accorded very great weight and, as that Court went on to say,
when consistent and unchallenged for over a century are almost conclusive that
consistent construction by Congress of its authority under the Copyright and Patent
Clause now has lasted from the 105th -- from the first through the 105th Congress.
It has been sustained by Justices of this Court and early decisions of this Court.
It is consistent with what the law of England was from the Statute of Anne --

Yes, but take one of the early extensions, just extending a --
an already granted patent to an inventor for an extra 10 years. How can that be
squared with the language of the provision? Maybe Congress did it, but maybe it
acted improperly when it did it.

Well, the Congress -- 

And that's our question, really. 

Well, that -- it seems to me that there may be -- this is
-- the clause itself is a very, very broad grant. It says the --

Do you view it as entirely a grant, or do you think it also
contains limitations?

Well, I think that to the extent that there may be
limitations, Justice Stevens, they are -- require considerable deference by this
Court to the judgment of Congress --

Well, I understand that, but do you -- I'd be interested in
knowing, do you think it does contain limitations?

It contains -- the clause itself contains limitations,
limited times, authors, exclusive rights and things of that nature. I don't think --
and the petitioners expressly disclaim the assertion that any substantive
limitations in the "Promote the- Clause. What the Framers were saying is, we want to
give Congress the authority to promote the progress of useful arts and sciences, and
--

How did the example we just talked about, a patentee giving an
extra 10 years on his -- how does that promote the progress of science?

Well, it may provide additional incentives for the
patentee to exploit and promote and disseminate that particular work. With respect
to creative works like works of art, books and that sort of thing, it 20 patentee,
that there was a bargain in effect between the inventor and the Government that at a
certain period of time it would become part of the public domain. It seems to me
it's inconsistent with that.

I'm just concentrating on our and I'm wondering how that fits
into the notion

It isn't inconsistent, I submit, Justice Stevens, for the
Congress to exercise its juris -- its responsibility under this broad grant of power
to determine that there could be many ways in which the holder of an existing right
may benefit the public by continuing to have that right for an additional period of
time, the same reason that Congress -- same reasons that Congress had when it
created the right in the first place. It's not just the right --

No, the reason for the right in the first place was to
encourage invention.

Well, but I -- we submit that specifically with respect to
the Copyright Clause, but I think it applies to the patent portion of the clause at
all, it isn't just the invention, it isn't just the writing of the work -- and this
relates to the questions that were asked of my colleague a moment ago. It includes
the dissemination of the work, not necessarily --

Dissemination alone?

Not necessarily the dissemination alone --

Well, no, not -- don't say not necessarily. I'm -- for
purposes of my thinking about it, I'd like to know, imagine we have just
dissemination.

That something is already in the

That's correct. The only justification for the extension,
there is no other, is dissemination of a work that is already in existence.

I would not want to rule that out, Justice Breyer, for the
very reason --

Well, I want to say, do you think yes or no?

Well, I think that it could very well be yes, for the
reason that in the 1790 statute the Congress specifically was aware of -- that there
were State copyright laws which didn't last as long as the Federal statute. Several
of the States hadn't finished enacting those copyright laws, and a couple of States
hadn't enacted them at all.

So in your opinion, in my example, if you recall it --

It's --

-- your answer would be, if Congress tomorrow wants to give a
copyright to a publisher solely for the purpose of reproducing and disseminating Ben
Jonson, Shakespeare, it can do it?

It may --

I hate to say may --

Well --

-- because that really -- that's an important question.

Well, because I don't think that a per -- I don't think
there is a per se rule that should apply here because this is a grant of Congress,
to Congress to exercise its judgment as to what may be beneficial. There may be
other constitutional provisions that come into play, or there may be other existing
--

All right, let me explain to you why it's important to me. I
have a list. This is an economic statute. The harms that seem to be caused by it,
the extension, I've listed as follows, approximate numbers, made up, but magnitude
correct. The existing copyright holders who survive, their copyright survives 70
years, who have already been paid, on the numbers that were given, about $24 billion
or more, will receive an extra $6 billion. That, I take it, is a harm. Their works
have already been created. Harm number 2. The fact that people, for the 99 percent
of the copyrights that have no commercial value after 70 years, have to find the
copyright holder to put them in databases. The cost of that, on my numbers in here,
made up, at least a billion dollars, or they can't find the people at all and get
permission, an innumerable cost, un -- valuable cost to people who want to use it.
Those are costs. On the plus side I see uniformity, dissemination, and -- now, you
tell me.

Well, I also see compliance with international competitive
markets and the laws that are being adopted, and the incentives --

Uniformity. That's uniformity.

Well, that's not just uniformity. It's providing incentive
to people to publish here, as opposed to publish in Europe, where longer terms might
be available. There is an incentive to distribute existing works that may be
necessary. It's the consistency that Congress is promoting by saying to individuals,
as they might have said when they enacted the Copyright Clause in the first place,
we will not only give you 14 years, but if we change our mind tomorrow, and think
that a better, a longer period is necessary, we're -- this is consistency, but it's
also a matter of fairness, and it's -- 

Why -- on the last point, it's -- I've counted that as zero.
The reason I've counted it as zero is it seems to me that the added value, incentive
value to produce between life plus 50, or life plus 70, is zero. It's carried out,
as the economists do, to three decimal points, divide by 100 for the probability of
your ever having such a work, and you get virtually zero, no difference between this
and a perpetual copyright.

Well, I think that that's a very good illustration of why
the authority is granted to Congress, because if you are an 80-year-old writer, that
may make a considerable difference in terms of what you decide to do.

How could it?

It may -- because you may -- if you have no incentive, if
you know that go into the public domain sooner rather affect your judgment with
respect to --

In -- I --this is going to than later, it may

It might also publisher -- what the publisher pays for
your prospective work, Justice Breyer. We -- the Copyright Clause incentive provides
incentives not just for -- not just to the creators, but to the disseminators, the
publishers, the broadcasters, the film companies.

So you think, say, Verdi, Othello, Verdi, Othello, 80 years
old, the prospect of an extra 20 years way down the pike would have made a
difference?

Well, I think again that illustrates why the authority is
vested in Congress to make these judgments rather than in courts to make these
affect whether the judgments, because we're not talking about the effect on an
individual author, or an individual creator. What the Framers of the Constitution
were concerned about is a gross judgment with respect to what might generally
provide incentives to the population -- 

But it is hard to understand how, if the overall purpose of
the Copyright Clause is to encourage creative work, how some retroactive extension
could possibly do that. I -- one wonders what was in the principle 13 difficult
principle given to Congress and has been exercised so repeatedly out there that
would ever kick in?

Well, that's a -- that is a question to say whether there
is any limiting when such a broad grant of power, authority is that -- 

Well, if it's a limited term, as the Constitution says, is
there indeed any limit out there?

What I submit -- well, first of all, even the petitioners
acknowledge that, as far as prospective limits are concerned, that isn't a judgment
that this Court is being made to ask and, in fact, the petitioners acknowledge that
it isn't a judgment that this Court should make, so the only point that the
petitioners --

Well, if Congress says we're going to grant this copyright
indefinitely, forever --

That would seem --

-- that violates the limited term, does it not?

I acknowledge that. And anything that --

In Victorian England you could buy a box seat for 900 years.
There was serene complacency about their culture, and God bless them, but --

-- I really think this is an important question and, as
Justice O'Connor points out, if we have to ask what's the most plausible explanation
for this rule, to reward existing vested interest or to stimulate former new works,
it seems to me that it's probably the former.

Well -- 

I mean, we know that.

It is -- well, it -- let me say with respond -- in
response to both of those questions, an unlimited time would violate the Copyright
Clause. Something that was the functional equivalent of an unlimited time would
violate the Copyright Clause, but the Framers specifically did not put in numbers.
They had the opportunity to do that. Thomas Jefferson suggested that a number should
be put in. We submit that it would be -- even -- since the petitioners don't suggest
that it's an appropriate function of this Court, certainly in this case, to pick a
number, 133 years or something of that nature, but it is quite clear that Congress
from the Statute of Anne, 1710, we have 300 years of history, of Congress thinking
that it continues to benefit the process, not just of the productivity, of the
creation of the work itself, but the dissemination of it to provide -- 

General Olson, you say that the functional equivalent of an
unlimited time would be a violation, but that's precisely the argument that's being
made by petitioners here, that a limited time which is extendable is the
functionable, functional equivalent of an unlimited time, a limited time that 10
years from now can be extended, and then extended again, and extended again. Why --
their argument is precisely that, a limited time doesn't mean anything unless it
means, once you have established the limit for works that have been created under
that limit, that's the end.

Well, the Framers had an opportunity to say immutable,
unalterable, unamendable. They didn't use that. They used the phrase, limited term,
which means then, meant then and means now, a certain specified --

Okay, assuming --

-- number of years under the 5 statute.

With the exception of a limitation which illustrates the
distinction between forever on the one hand and a definite number on the other, is
there any limitation in the clause? Does the promotion, does the preambular
recitation of promotion as such place a limit on it?

I submit, Justice Souter, that there's no per se
limitation, that if there is, as Justice Scalia suggested, for -- if it is true that
Congress,having specified 14 years or 28 years, decides that doesn't work very well
because of the economies of other countries, the parade of constraints on artists in
other countries, the reasons that we want things to be preserved or distributed, it
should be 2 more years, or 5 more years later -- 

Yes, but that argument would apply to new copyrights, but to
extension of already existing copyrights your argument doesn't apply.

It does apply, Justice Stevens, because --

The work has already been created.

The work has already been created, but the artists that
are creating works day in and day out take into consideration the fact that Congress
has decided, there's an ease of administration --

But for them, they get the benefit of the longer term if you
don't apply it to an existing copyright. I mean, if you say you need 70 years
because of changes in the economy to encourage works, you grant 70 for the future,
but why does that, making that apply to somebody provided him?

We're not just -- because we're not just talking about the author. 
If we -- we're talking about --

The Constitution refers to the authors and the inventors, doesn't it? 
They're certainly the prime actors in this scene, aren't they?

Yes, but all of the history of the development of these
clauses suggests that -- and this Court has indicated in its decisions with respect
to copyright, that the Framers were concerned and the Congress is legitimately
concerned not just in providing the spark of creativity, but to make sure that
that's distributed widely and available, and there may be many reasons why -- we're -- we --

And that it gets into the public the expiration of the term.
That was an part of the bargain.

Yes, and what -- but the 
definition of the term was a responsibility vested in Congress, because it has the
power -- the legislative history of the 1998 act itself suggests what was going on
here and suggests why the Framers gave this authority to Congress. There were
numerous hearings, there were testimony by the folks that represent the same
position as petitioners here as to why this shouldn't be done, why it should be that
this done. Congress weighed -- as this Court, the phrase Court used, I think it was
in the Feist case,the delicate balance that was so difficult for Congress
to--

How -- 

Okay, but you --

-- what weighs in that balance, because to go back for one
second, in practical, economic terms I gather the difference between a copyright
that lasts for 100 years, lasts for 1,000 years, lasts forever, is probably
something less than 1,000 -- on $1,000 a penny. I mean, it's a penny on 1,000, or
probably a lot less than that, frankly. So I can not only not imagine a person whose
decision to write would be governed by such a thing, I cannot imagine a European who
would come to America to copyright his work for such a reason. Indeed, I wonder why
that European wouldn't come anyway, even if the term were 10 years, because if he
doesn't come, he's not going to get protection.

Well, the --

I mean, who are these people that are going to be moved by
that incentive?

The -- as we described in our brief, in pages 34 through
36, I believe it is in our brief, that the concerns about the limitation on
exploitation and the limitation of a copyright period in Europe is based upon the
country of origin of the work and the shortest time available. So that there may be
differences, and we describe that, but that illustrates, Justice Breyer, the
difference between 1 cents and 10 cents and $100 with respect to this particular
author who's this particular age, or a particular author like Melville, whose works
weren't -- weren't -- didn't -- or Schubert, whose works weren't properly
appreciated or exploitable until many years after their death. All of these
variations are quintessentially legislative judgments. It would be very difficult
for the Framers to have eschewed deciding 14 years was a constitutional limitation,
and for this Court to say 99 years is, and again, even the petitioners aren't asking
the Court to make that judgment. The petitioners are only saying that there shall be
a per se rule that the word "limited times," means unchangeable times.

But there has to be a limit, as you acknowledge. Perpetual
copyright is not permitted. Who is the judge of -- within that line? Who is the
judge of when it becomes unlimited? Is there, in other words, judicial review and,
if there is, what standard would this Court apply to determine whether something
short of perpetual is still unlimited?

Well, the issue before this Court, I hasten to say, as I
said before, is only whether, once the Congress makes that judgment, it can ever
change it retrospectively. The issue before this Court is not whether, in the
future, a certain length of time would be appropriate. That -- but the answer to
that, Justice Ginsburg, I submit, is found in the Necessary and Proper Clause, and
this Court's interpretation of the Necessary and Proper Clause as to the extent that
this Court would find or not find that the judgment made by Congress with respect to
the implementation of this very broad power is convenient or useful in terms of the
achievement of the 2 goals.

Okay, and is your argument that we find and hold against their
retrospective because there is some, at least plausible basis should so argument, to
say that there can be a causal connection between the retrospective extension and
some benefit that can be traced to those particular works through the retrospective
extension, like dissemination? Is that your argument?

That is among our arguments, Justice Souter.

Is it also your argument that even if you cannot trace that
kind, or at least plausibly argue that there could be that kind of a causal benefit,
that it would still be constitutional, because you should judge the extension simply
as contributing to a general system, one feature of which is that from time to time
there may be retrospective extensions, and so long as that general system induces
the creation of works, or the dissemination of works, or the preservation of works,
so long as the general system works, there is no review, no limitation on the
tinkering that can be done, even retrospectively? Is that also your argument?

I think that's a fair statement of an argument that we
have made and articulated in the brief --

Okay.

-- that unless there is a -- the Court is -- because the
circumstances change, that we are living in an era now where piracy is a significant
problem, there's question of administrative ease, of administering a system where
copyrights may be different for one set of authors, or different for another set of
authors, there's changes that are taking place internationally, so that what we're
saying is that not only could this Court conceive of reasons why Congress thought it
was accomplishing the objectives of this clause, but that there are numerous
objectives that are entirely legitimate in --

Do you also argue that the Necessary and Proper Clause alone
will justify the retroactive extension simply as a matter of equity?

Yes.

That is, that the Copyright Clause justifies the extension for
works not yet created, but it would be enormously inequitable to have other authors
who put in the same amount of work get a lesser protection, so the Necessary and
Proper Clause now allows you to do the 24 retrospective? 

Yes, Justice Scalia, and the examples that are -- 

Can I ask you, why is it enormously inequitable if they get
exactly what they were entitled to at the time they made the work?

The implicit promise that --

I mean, they have some right to expect that they will be --
you know, an additional grant, later on?

I think that's not an unreasonable expectation at all,
Justice Stevens, because that was the premise of the --

That is the way it's always been done. There hasn't been any
copyright extension that hasn't applied to subsisting work.

That's -- 

But there was one -- Justice Breyer brought up Ben Jonson, so
-- this case doesn't involve works that are already in the public domain.

That is correct. 

This is subsisting copyrights.

That is correct. 

So -- 

But why wouldn't it? 

Why? Why not? 

Why wouldn't it? If the equity argument under the Necessary
and Proper Clause justifies extension of the copyright for those whose copyright
will expire tomorrow if it's not extended, in order to put them on parity with those
getting copyrights for new works, why doesn't it apply to the copyright, the holder
of the copyright that expired yesterday?

You could arguably -- you could conceivably make that
argument, Justice Souter, but there is a bright line there. Something that has
already gone into the public domain, which other individuals or companies or
entities may then have acquired an interest in, or rights to, or be involved in
disseminating --

And if you don't -- 

This is a rational --

If you don't draw the line there, then Ben Jonson certainly
gets recopyrighted.

Well, the difficulty --

If we're just looking for a bright line, the line that they
suggest between unexpired patents and copyrights and brand new ones is also just as
bright.

Oh, I concede that it's a bright line, but it's a bright
line that would have --

Except Congress chose this one and didn't choose the other
one. That's --

Congress --

Basically you're saying the presumption ought to be in the congressional judgment
about how to draw the line as well as in how long a line to draw.

I agree, and this Court has -- we're not just talking about the 
judgment of the Congress of the -- the 105th 
Congress in 1998. This is the way the Statute of Anne was written. This is the
way the State copyright laws were written when this country became a Nation. This is
the way the 1790 copyright statute, the number of -- 

Well, of course, the original statute was replacing a bunch of
State statutes or State rules, partly common law, partly statutory, that -- they had
kind of a mixed up legal situation, and there was an interest in having one uniform
rule for the first time around.

Well, there was an interest in having a uniform rule, and
that's precisely why the Framers created the Copyright Clause in the Constitution,
but there was copyright protection in some States, there wasn't copyright protection
in other States, and what we know from the decision of this Court in the Wheaton
decision is that there was not a common law copyright in existence. This Court
explicitly held that. Now, the petitioners make this quid pro quo to draw the line
as well as in how long a line

I agree, and this Court has -- just talking about the
judgment of the Congress the 105th Congress in 1998. This is the way the argument
that somehow implicitly the initial 1790 copyright statute was saying to people, you
get a copyright if you exchange whatever existing rights you have. That simply does
not make any sense. There is no language, and it's a relatively late-discovered
argument, because it sees its full -- 

I want you to finish that, but I want you to go back to the --
I have one question on the equity principle. Are you -- I want you to finish.

I wasn't finished, but I'm happy to come back.

Go ahead. No, no, you finish

Well, I was going to say no language whatsoever of
preemption, abandonment, abrogation, or exchange in the 1790 copyright, but compare
-- Copyright Act. But compare that to thefirst. there's Patent Act under the same
clause, where there is that exchange there. The other thing, as this Court has said,
there is no implied abrogation of common law rights which would be a doctrine which
would be inconsistent with what the petitioner is arguing. Now --

Why -- I mean, I think you have a point on this equity
principle. I wonder, is there any review there? That is, suppose you have a statute,
as this one arguably is, where 99.9 percent, many billions of dollars of benefits,
are going to the existing holders of copyright on grounds of equity, and the effect
of the statute in eliciting new works is near zero. I mean, that would seem -- where
this equity idea is the camel and the production idea is the gnat, and is there any
-- can we say something like that, or does Congress have total leeway in respect to
--

Well, it --

-- who they want to give the money to, basically?

Justice Breyer, it's conceivable that the Court might do
that if that situation was present, but it's not remotely the situation here. We
have the adoption of copyright terms which are consistent, generally speaking, with
copyright terms which exist in the European Union, our principal competitor, and in
connection with international treaties. We have a copyright term that's consistent
with the concept of the creator plus the creator's first generation heirs. We have a
copyright term, remember, which supersedes the earlier copyright provisions that
were added to the period between creation and publication, so that the limited
number of years in the first, the 1790 and the 1831 statute were the number of years
plus the relatively unlimited period of time between creation and publication, so we
don't have anything remotely like that in this situation. We have a process which,
as you suggested, or one of the questions suggested, is -- may not have been the
policy that you as a Member of Congress would have supported. You might have made
the balance, that delicate balance that this Court has referred to, in another way,
but that is something that Congress, through its ability to gather facts and make
balances, is quintessentially capable of doing, and that is where the Framers vested
the responsibility, and what this statute does is to favor, if at all, the creator
with respect to the utilization of these rights, as opposed to the person who wishes
to copy the creator. That's an entirely rational distinction for Congress to make.
Thank you.

Thank you, General Olson. Mr. Lessig, you have 3 minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF LAWRENCE LESSIG ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS

General Olson has been perfectly clear in setting out the
structure of the Government's argument. It is that there is no effective limit on
Congress's power under the Copyright Clause. Now, were this the first time this
Court had considered Congress's copyright authority, that might be a plausible
argument, but the very first time this Court ever struck down a law of Congress as
exceeding Article I, section 8 power was in the context of the Copyright Clause. We
have 125 years of history of this Court making sure that the limits, both express
and implied, in the Copyright Clause, have some meaning. The Feist opinion very
clearly sets out the implied limits, a per se limit for originality, for the reasons
Justice Breyer was trying to get me to say. The Harper as well as Graham set out
very clear limits on the context of the ability to extend works in the public
domain. Those limits make no sense under the reasoning the Government has offered.
The Government's reasoning would make all of those opinions irrelevant and wrong.
Now, we offer a simple way to make this clear, express limit make sense, and that is
precisely the understanding we suggest that existed in 1790. The only precedents
that existed in 1790 were precedents of setting a term, and then when parliament was
asked in 1735, '37, and '39 to extend it, they rejected it, and as amicus historians
said, they rejected it because, as a pamphleteer described it, that would be
effectively a perpetual term. Now, this delicate balance that the Government
invokes, Justice Breyer, let me give you the numbers. The delicate balance is that,
under the most reasonable assumptions of copyright royalty income and under our
interest rate of 7 percent, as the amicus economists note at page 6, note 6 of their
brief, the current term gives authors 99.8 percent of the value of a perpetual term.
Now, that might be a delicate balance, that they give the author 99.8 percent and
the public .2 percent, but in my mind, that's delicate in a very different sense of
that term. Thank you very much.

Thank you, Mr. Lessig. The case is
submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:01 a.m., the case in the above-entitled matter was submitted.)







Debate Transcript 
October 11, 2000
The Second Gore-Bush Presidential Debate 

 Let's welcome the candidates, Governor Bush and Vice President Gore. Good evening, from Wake Chapel at Wake Forest University at Winston-Salem, North Carolina. I'm Jim Lehrer of the News Hour on PBS. Welcome to this second election 2000 debate between the Republican candidate for president, George W. Bush of Texas, and the Democratic candidate, Vice President Al Gore. These debates are sponsored by the Commission on Presidential Debates. The format and the rules are those negotiated by representatives of the two campaigns. Only the subjects tonight and the questions are mine. The format tonight is that of a conversation. The only prevailing rule is that no single response can ever, ever exceed two minutes. The prevailing rule for the audience here in the hall is as always, absolute quiet, please. Good evening, Governor Bush, Vice President Gore. The end of our 90 minutes last week in Boston, the total time each of you took was virtually the same. Let's see if we can do the same tonight, or come close. Governor Bush, the first question goes to you. One of you is about to be elected the leader of the single-most powerful nation in the world, economically, financially, militarily, diplomatically, you name it. Have you formed any guiding principles for exercising this enormous power?
 I have, I have. First question is what's in the best interests of the United States? What's in the best interests of our people? When it comes to foreign policy that will be my guiding question. Is it in our nation's interests? Peace in the Middle East is in our nation's interests. Having a hemisphere that is free for trade and peaceful is in our nation's interests. Strong relations in Europe is in our nation's interest. I've thought a lot about what it means to be the president. I also understand that an administration is not one person, but an administration is dedicated citizens who are called by the president to serve the country, to serve a cause greater than self, and so I've thought about an administration of people who represent all America, but people who understand my compassionate and conservative philosophy. I haven't started naming names except for one person, and that's Mr. Richard Cheney who I thought did a great job the other night. He's a vice presidential nominee who represents -- I think people got to see why I picked him. He's man of solid judgment and he's going to be a person to stand by my side. One of the things I've done in Texas is I've been able to put together a good team of people. I've been able to set clear goals. The goals ought to be an education system that leaves no child behind, Medicare for our seniors, a Social Security system that's safe and secure, foreign policy that's in our nation's interest, and a strong military, and then bring people together to achieve those goals. That's what a Chief Executive Officer does. So I've thought long and hard about the honor of being the President of the United States.
 Vice President Gore?
 Yes, Jim. I've thought a lot about that particular question, and I see our greatest national strength coming from what we stand for in the world. I see it as a question of values. It is a great tribute to our founders that 224 years later this nation is now looked to by the peoples on every other continent and the peoples from every part of this earth as a kind of model for what their future could be. And I don't think that's just the kind of exaggeration that we take pride in as Americans. It's really true, even the ones that sometimes shake their fists at us. As soon as they have a change that allows the people to speak freely, they're wanting to develop some kind of blueprint that will help them be like us more, freedom, free markets, political freedom. So I think first and foremost our power ought to be wielded to in ways that form a more perfect union. The power of example is America's greatest power in the world. And that means, for example, standing up for human rights. It means addressing the problems of injustice and inequity, along the lines of race and ethnicity here at home, because in all these other places around the world where they're having these terrible problems, when they feel hope, it is often because they see in us a reflection of their potential. So we've got to enforce our civil rights laws. We've got to deal with things like racial profiling. And we have to keep our military strong. We have the strongest military, and I'll do whatever is necessary, if I'm president, to make sure that it stays that way. But our real power comes, I think, from our values.
 Should the people of the world look at the United States, Governor, and say, should they fear us, should they welcome our involvement, should they see us as a friend, everybody in the world? How would you project us around the world, as president?
 Well, I think they ought to look at us as a country that understands freedom where it doesn't matter who you are or how you're raised or where you're from, that you can succeed. I don't think they'll look at us with envy. It really depends upon how our nation conducts itself in foreign policy. If we're an arrogant nation, they'll resent us. If we're a humble nation, but strong, they'll welcome us. And it's -- our nation stands alone right now in the world in terms of power, and that's why we have to be humble. And yet project strength in a way that promotes freedom. So I don't think they ought to look at us in any way other than what we are. We're a freedom-loving nation and if we're an arrogant nation they'll view us that way, but if we're a humble nation they'll respect us.
 A humble nation.
 I agree with that. I agree with that. I think that one of the problems that we have faced in the world is that we are so much more powerful than any single nation has been in relationship to the rest of the world than at any time in history, that I know about, anyway. That there is some resentment of U.S. power. So I think that the idea of humility is an important one. But I think that we also have to have a sense of mission in the world. We have to protect our capacity to push forward what America's all about. That means not only military strength and our values, it also means keeping our economy strong. You know, in the last, or two decades ago it was routine for leaders of foreign countries to come over here and say you guys have got to do something about these horrendous deficits because it's causing tremendous problems for the rest of the world, and we were lectured to all the time. The fact that we have the strongest economy in history today is not good enough. We need to do more. But the fact that it is so strong enables us to project the power for good that America can represent.
 Does that give us -- does our wealth, our good economy, our power, bring with it special obligations to the rest of the world?
 Yes, it does. Take, for example, Third World debt. I think we ought to be forgiving Third World debt under certain conditions. I think, for example, if we're convinced that a Third World country that's got a lot of debt would reform itself, that the money wouldn't go into the hands of a few but would go to help people, I think it makes sense for us to use our wealth in that way, or to trade debt for valuable rain forest lands, makes that much sense, yes. We do have an obligation, but we can't be all things to all people. We can help build coalitions but we can't put our troops all around the world. We can lend money but we have to do it wisely. We shouldn't be lending money to corrupt officials. So we have to be guarded in our generosity.
 Let's go through some of the specifics now. New question. Vice President Gore, the governor mentioned the Middle East. Here we're talking at this stage in the game about diplomatic power that we have. What do you think the United States should do right now to resolve that conflict over there?
 The first priority has to be on ending the violence, dampening down the tensions that have arisen there. We need to call upon Syria to release the three Israeli soldiers who have been captured. We need to insist that Arafat send out instructions to halt some of the provocative acts of violence that have been going on. I think that we also have to keep a weather eye toward Saddam Hussein because he is taking advantage of this situation to once again make threats, and he needs to understand that he's not only dealing with Israel, he is dealing -- he's dealing with us if he is making the kind of threats that he's talking about there. The use of diplomacy in this situation has already, well, it goes hour-by-hour and day-by-day now. It's a very tense situation there. But in the last 24 hours there has been some subsiding of the violence there. It's too much to hope that this is going to continue, but I do hope that it will continue. Our country has been very active with regular conversations with the leaders there. And we just have to take it day-to-day right now. But one thing I would say where diplomacy is concerned, Israel should feel absolutely secure about one thing. Our bonds with Israel are larger than agreements or disagreements on some details of diplomatic initiatives. They are historic, they are strong, and they are enduring. And our ability to serve as an honest broker is something that we need to shepherd.
 Governor?
 Well, I think during the campaign, particularly now during this difficult period, we ought to be speaking with one voice, and I appreciate the way the administration has worked hard to calm the tensions. Like the vice president, I call on Chairman Arafat to have his people pull back to make the peace. I think credibility is going to be very important in the future in the Middle East. I want everybody to know should I be the president Israel's going to be our friend. I'm going to stand by Israel. Secondly, that I think it's important to reach out to moderate Arab nations, like Jordan and Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. It's important to be friends with people when you don't need each other so that when you do there's a strong bond of friendship. And that's going to be particularly important in dealing not only with situations such as now occurring in Israel, but with Saddam Hussein. The coalition against Saddam has fallen apart or it's unraveling, let's put it that way. The sanctions are being violated. We don't know whether he's developing weapons of mass destruction. He better not be or there's going to be a consequence should I be the president. But it's important to have credibility and credibility is formed by being strong with your friends and resoluting your determination. One of the reasons why I think it's important for this nation to develop an anti-ballistic missile system that we can share with our allies in the Middle East if need be to keep the peace is to be able to say to the Saddam Husseins of the world or the Iranians, don't dare threaten our friends. It's also important to keep strong ties in the Middle East, credible ties, because of the energy crisis we're now in. After all, a lot of the energy is produced from the Middle East, and so I appreciate what the administration is doing. I hope to get a sense of should I be fortunate to be the president how my administration will react to the Middle East.
 So you don't believe, Vice President Gore, that we should take sides and resolve this right now? A lot of people pushing hey, the United States should declare itself and not be so neutral in this particular situation.
 Well, we stand with Israel, but we have maintained the ability to serve as an honest broker. And one of the reasons that's important is that Israel cannot have direct dialogue with some of the people on the other side of conflicts, especially during times of tension, unless that dialogue comes through us. And if we throw away that ability to serve as an honest broker, then we have thrown -- we will have thrown away a strategic asset that's important not only to us but also to Israel.
 You agree with that, Governor?
 I do. I do think this, though. When it comes to timetables it can't be the United States timetable as to how discussions take place. It's got to be a timetable that all parties can agree to, like the Palestinians and Israelis. Secondly, any lasting peace is going to have to be a peace that's good for both sides. And therefore, the term honest broker makes sense. This current administration's worked hard to keep the parties at the table. I will try to do the same thing. But it won't be on my timetable, it will be on the timetable that people are comfortable with in the Middle East.
 People watching here tonight are very interested in Middle East policy, and they are so interested they want to base their vote on differences between the two of you as president how you would handle Middle East policy. Is there any difference?
 I haven't heard a big difference in the last few exchanges.
 That's hard to tell. I think that, you know, I would hope to be able to convince people I could handle the Iraqi situation better.
 Saddam Hussein, you mean, get him out of there?
 I would like to, of course, and I presume this administration would as well. We don't know -- there are no inspectors now in Iraq, the coalition that was in place isn't as strong as it used to be. He is a danger. We don't want him fishing in troubled waters in the Middle East. And it's going to be hard, it's going to be important to rebuild that coalition to keep the pressure on him.
 You feel that is a failure of the Clinton administration?
 I do.
 Well, when I got to be a part of the current administration, it was right after -- I was one of the few members of my political party to support former President Bush in the Persian Gulf War resolution, and at the end of that war, for whatever reason, it was not finished in a way that removed Saddam Hussein from power. I know there are all kinds of circumstances and explanations. But the fact is that that's the situation that was left when I got there. And we have maintained the sanctions. Now I want to go further. I want to give robust support to the groups that are trying to overthrow Saddam Hussein, and I know there are allegations that they're too weak to do it, but that's what they said about the forces that were opposing Milosevic in Serbia, and you know, the policy of enforcing sanctions against Serbia has just resulted in a spectacular victory for democracy just in the past week, and it seems to me that having taken so long to see the sanctions work there, building upon the policy of containment that was successful over a much longer period of time against the former Soviet Union in the communist block, seems a little early to declare that we should give up on the sanctions. I know the governor's not necessarily saying that but, you know, all of these flights that have come in, all of them have been in accordance with the sanctions regime, I'm told, except for three where they notified, and they're trying to break out of the box, there's no question about it. I don't think they should be allowed to.
 Did he state your position correctly, you're not calling for eliminating the sanctions, are you?
 No, of course not, absolutely not, I want them to be tougher.
 Let's go on to Milosevic and Yugoslavia, and it falls under the area of our military power. Governor, new question. Should the fall of Milosevic be seen as a triumph for U.S. military intervention?
 I think it's a triumph. I thought the president made the right decision in joining NATO and bombing Serbia. I supported them when they did so. I called upon the Congress not to hamstring the administration, and in terms of forcing troop withdrawals on a timetable that wasn't necessarily in our best interest or fit our nation's strategy, and so I think it's good public policy, I think it worked, and I'm pleased I took -- made the decision I made. I'm pleased the president made the decision he made. Because freedom to go in that part of the world, and where there's a lot of work left to be done, however.
 But you think it would not have happened -- do you think that Milosevic would not have fallen if the United States and NATO had not intervened militarily? Is this a legitimate use of our military power?
 Yes, I think it is. Absolutely. I don't think he would have fallen had we not used the force. And I know there are some in our party that disagree with that sentiment. I supported the president. I thought he made the right decision to do so. I didn't think he necessarily made the right decision to take land troops off the table right before we committed ourselves offensively, but nevertheless, it worked. The administration deserves credit for having made it work. It is important for NATO to have it work. It's important for NATO to be strong and confident and to help keep the peace in Europe. And one of the reasons I felt so strongly that the United States needed to participate was because of our relations with NATO, and NATO is going to be an important part of keeping the peace in the future. Now, there's more work to do. Remains to be seen, however, whether or not there's going to be a political settlement in Kosovo, and I certainly hope there is one. Also on record as saying at some point in time I hope our European friends become the peacekeepers in Bosnia and in the Balkans. I hope that they put the troops on the ground so that we can withdraw our troops and focus our military on fighting and winning war.
 Well, I've been kind of a hard-liner on this issue for more than eight years. When I was in the senate before I became vice president I was pushing for stronger action against Milosevic. He caused the death of so many people. He was the last communist party boss there and then he became a dictator that by some other label he was still essentially a communist dictator. And unfortunately now he is trying to reassert himself in Serbian politics. Already just today the members of his political party said that they were going to ignore the orders of the new president of Serbia, and that they question his legitimacy, and he's still going to try to be actively involved. He is an indicted war criminal. He should be held accountable. Now, I did want to pick up on one of the statements earlier, and maybe I have heard, maybe I have heard the previous statements wrong, Governor. In some of the discussions we've had about when it's appropriate for the U.S. to use force around the world, at times the standards that you've laid down have given me the impression that if it's something like a genocide taking place or what they called ethnic cleansing in Bosnia, that that alone would not be, that that wouldn't be the kind of situation that would cause you to think that the U.S. ought to get involved with troops. Now, have to be other factors involved for me to want to be involved. But by itself, that to me can bring into play a fundamental American strategic interest because I think it's based on our values. Now, have I got that wrong?
 Trying to figure out who the questioner was.
 If I think it's in our nation's strategic interest I'll commit troops. I thought it was in our strategic interests to keep Milosevic in check because of our relations in NATO, and that's why I took the position I took. I think it's important for NATO to be strong and confident. I felt like unchecked Milosevic would harm NATO, and so it depends on the situation, Mr. Vice President.
 Well, let's stay on the subject for a moment. New question related to this. I figured this out; in the last 20 years there have been eight major actions that involved the introduction of U.S. ground, air or naval forces. Let me name them. Lebanon, Grenada, Panama, the Persian Gulf, Somalia, Bosnia, Haiti, Kosovo. If you had been president for any of those interventions, would any of those interventions not have happened?
 Can you run through the list again?
 Sure. Lebanon.
 I thought that was a mistake.
 Grenada.
 I supported that.
 Panama.
 I supported that.
 Persian Gulf.
 Yes, I voted for it, supported it.
 Somalia.
 Of course, and that again -- no, I think that that was ill-considered. I did support it at the time. It was in the previous administration, in the Bush-Quayle administration, and I think in retrospect the lessons there are ones that we should take very, very seriously.
 Bosnia.
 Oh, yes.
 Haiti.
 Yes.
 And then Kosovo.
 Yes.
 We talked about that. Want me to do it with you? Lebanon.
 Make a couple comments.
 Sure, absolutely, sure. Somalia.
 Started off as a humanitarian mission and it changed into a nation-building mission, and that's where the mission went wrong. The mission was changed. And as a result, our nation paid a price. And so I don't think our troops ought to be used for what's called nation-building. I think our troops ought to be used to fight and win war. I think our troops ought to be used to help overthrow the dictator when it's in our best interests. But in this case it was a nation-building exercise, and same with Haiti. I wouldn't have supported either.
 What about Lebanon?
 Yes.
 Grenada.
 Yes.
 Panama?
 Yes. Some of them I've got a conflict of interest on, if you know what I mean.
 I do, I do. The Persian Gulf, obviously. And Bosnia. And you have already talked about Kosovo. But the reverse side of the question, Governor, that Vice President Gore mentioned, 600,000 people died in Rwanda in 1994. There was no U.S. intervention, no intervention from the outside world. Was that a mistake not to intervene?
 I think the administration did the right thing in that case. I do. It was a horrible situation, no one liked to see it on our TV screens, but it's a case where we need to make sure we have an early warning system in place in places where there could be ethnic cleansing and genocide the way we saw it there in Rwanda. And that's a case where we need to use our influence to have countries in Africa come together and help deal with the situation. The administration, seem like we're having a great love for us tonight, but the administration made the right decision on training Nigerian troops for situations just such as this in Rwanda, and so I thought they made the right decision not to send U.S. troops into Rwanda.
 Do you have any second thoughts on that, based on what you said a moment ago about genocide?
 I'd like to come back to the question of nation building, but let me address the question directly, first. Fine. We did, actually, send troops into Rwanda to help with the humanitarian relief measures. My wife Tipper, who is here, actually went on a military plane with General Sholicatchvieli on one of those flights. But I think in retrospect we were too late getting in there. We could have saved more lives if we had acted earlier. But I do not think that it was an example of a conflict where we should have put our troops in to try to separate the parties for this reason, Jim. One of the criteria that I think is important in deciding when and if we should ever get involved around the world is whether or not our national security interest is involved, if we can really make the difference with military forces. We tried everything else. If we have allies in the Balkans we have allies, NATO, ready, willing and able to go and carry a big part of the burden. In Africa we did not. Now, we have tried -- our countries tried to create an Africa crisis response team there, and we've met some resistance. We have had some luck with Nigeria, but in Sierra Leon, and now that Nigeria has become a democracy, and we hope it stays that way, then maybe we can build on that. But because we had no allies and because it was very unclear that we could actually accomplish what we would want to accomplish about putting military forces there, I think it was the right thing not to jump in, as heartbreaking as it was, but I think we should have come in much quicker with the humanitarian mission.
 So what would you say, Governor, that somebody would say hey wait a minute, why not Africa, I mean why the Middle East, why the Balkans, but not Africa, when 600,000 people's lives are at risk?
 Well, I understand, and Africa is important. And we've got to do a lot of work in Africa to promote democracy and trade, and there are some -- Vice President mentioned Nigeria is a fledgling democracy. We have to work with Nigeria. That's an important continent. But there's got to be priorities, and Middle East is a priority for a lot of reasons, as is Europe and the Far East, our own hemisphere. And those are my four top priorities should I be the president, not to say we won't be engaged nor work hard to get other nations to come together to prevent atrocity. I thought the best example of a way to handle the situation was East Timor when we provided logistical support to the Australians, support that only we can provide. I thought that was a good model. But we can't be all things to all people in the world, Jim. And I think that's where maybe the vice president and I begin to have some differences. I'm worried about overcommitting our military around the world. I want to be judicious in its use. You mentioned Haiti. I wouldn't have sent troops to Haiti. I didn't think it was a mission worthwhile. It was a nation building mission, and it was not very successful. It cost us billions, a couple billions of dollars, and I'm not so sure democracy is any better off in Haiti than it was before.
 Vice President Gore, do you agree with the governor's views on nation building, the use of military, our military, for nation building as he described and defined it?
 I don't think we agree on that. I would certainly also be judicious in evaluating any potential use of American troops overseas. I think we have to be very reticent about that. But look, Jim, the world is changing so rapidly. The way I see it, the world is getting much closer together. Like it or not, we are now -- the United States is now the natural leader of the world. All these other countries are looking to us. Now, just because we cannot be involved everywhere, and shouldn't be, doesn't mean that we should shy away from going in anywhere. Now, both of us are kind of, I guess, stating the other's position in a maximalist extreme way, but I think there is a difference here. This idea of nation building is kind of a pejorative phrase, but think about the great conflict of the past century, World War II. During the years between World War I and World War II, a great lesson was learned by our military leaders and the people of the United States. The lesson was that in the aftermath of World War I, we kind of turned our backs and left them to their own devices and they brewed up a lot of trouble that quickly became World War II. And acting upon that lesson in the aftermath of our great victory in World War II, we laid down the Marshall Plan, President Truman did. We got intimately involved in building NATO and other structures there. We still have lots of troops in Europe. And what did we do in the late '40's and '50's and '60's? We were nation building. And it was economic. But it was also military. And the confidence that those countries recovering from the wounds of war had by having troops there. We had civil administrators come in to set up their ways of building their towns back.
 You said in the Boston debate, Governor, on this issue of nation building, that the United States military is overextended now. Where is it overextended? Where are there U.S. military that you would bring home if you become president?
 First let me just say one comment about what the vice president said. I think one of the lessons in between World War I and World War II is we let our military atrophy. And we can't do that. We've got to rebuild our military. But one of the problems we have in the military is we're in a lot of places around the world. And I mentioned one, and that's the Balkans. I would very much like to get our troops out of there. I recognize we can't do it now, nor do I advocate an immediate withdrawal. That would be an abrogation of our agreement with NATO. No one is suggesting that. But I think it ought to be one of our priorities to work with our European friends to convince them to put troops on the ground. And there is an example. Haiti is another example. Now there are some places where I think -- you know, I've supported the administration in Columbia. I think it's important for us to be training Columbians in that part of the world. The hemisphere is in our interest to have a peaceful Columbia. But --
 The use of the military, there -- some people are now suggesting that if you don't want to use the military to maintain the peace, to do the civil thing, is it time to consider a civil force of some kind that comes in after the military that builds nations or all of that? Is that on your radar screen?
 I don't think so. I think what we need to do is convince people who live in the lands they live in to build the nations. Maybe I'm missing something here. I mean, we're going to have kind of a nation building core from America? Absolutely not. Our military is meant to fight and win war. That's what it's meant to do. And when it gets overextended, morale drops. I strongly believe we need to have a military presence in the peninsula, not only to keep the peace in the peninsula, but to keep regional stability. And I strongly believe we need to keep a presence in NATO, but I'm going to be judicious as to how to use the military. It needs to be in our vital interest, the mission needs to be clear, and the extra strategy obvious.
 I don't disagree with that. I certainly don't disagree that we ought to get our troops home from places like the Balkans as soon as we can, as soon as the mission is complete. That's what we did in Haiti. There are no more than a handful of American military personnel in Haiti now. And Haitians have their problems, but we gave them a chance to restore democracy. That's really about all we can do. But if you have a situation like that right in our backyard with chaos about to break out and flotillas forming to come across the water, and all kinds of violence there, right in one of our neighboring countries there, then I think that we did the right thing there. And as for this idea of nation building, the phrase sounds grandiose. And, you know, we can't be -- we can't allow ourselves to get overextended. I certainly agree with that. And that's why I've supported building up our capacity. I've devoted in the budget I've proposed, as I said last week, more than twice as much as the governor has proposed. I think that it's in better shape now than he generally does. We've had some disagreements about that. He said that two divisions would have to report not ready for duty, and that's not what the joint chiefs say. But there's no doubt that we have to continue building up readiness and military strength. And we have to also be very cautious in the way we use our military.
 In the non-military area of influencing events around the world, the financial and economic are, the World Bank President Wilfinson said recently, Governor, that U.S. contributions to overseas development assistance is lower now almost than it has ever been. Is that a problem for you? Do you think -- what is your -- what is your idea about what the United States' obligations are? I'm talking about financial assistance and that sort of thing to other countries, the poor countries.
 Well, I mentioned Third World debt.
 Sure.
 That's a place where we can use our generosity to influence in a positive way, influence nations. I believe we ought to have foreign aid, but I don't think we ought to just have foreign aid for the sake of foreign aid. I think foreign aid needs to be used to encourage markets and reform. I think a lot of times we just spend aid and say we feel better about it and it ends up being spent the wrong way, and there's some pretty egregious examples recently. One being Russia, where we had IMF loans that ended up in the pockets of a lot of powerful people and didn't help the nation. I think the IMF has got a role in the world, but I don't want to see the IMF out there as a way to say to world bankers, if you make a bad loan, we'll bail you out. It needs to be available for emergency situations. I thought the President did the right thing with Mexico and was very strongly supportive of the administration in Mexico. But I don't think the IMF ought to be a stop loss for people who ought to be able to evaluate risks themselves. So I'll look at every place where we're investing money. I just want to make sure the return is good.
 Do you think we're meeting our obligations properly?
 No, I would make some changes. I think there need to be reforms in the IMF. I've generally supported it, but I've seen them make some calls that I thought were highly questionable. And I think that there's a general agreement in many parts of the world now that there ought to be changes in the IMF. The World Bank I think is generally doing a better job, but I think one of the big issues here that doesn't get nearly enough attention is the issue of corruption. The governor mentioned it earlier. I've worked on this issue. It's an enormous problem and corruption in official agencies, like militaries and police departments around the world, customs officials, that's one of the worst forms of it. And we have got to again lead by example and help these other countries that are trying to straighten out their situations find the tools in order to do it. I just think, Jim, that this is an absolutely unique period in world history. The world has come together, as I said, they're looking to us. And we have a fundamental choice to make. Are we going to step up to the plate as a nation the way we did after World War II, the way that generation of heroes said okay, the United States is going to be the leader. And the world benefitted tremendously from the courage that they showed in those post-war years. I think that in the aftermath of the Cold War, it's time for us to do something very similar, to step up to the plate, to provide the leadership on the environment, leadership to make sure the world economy keeps moving in the right direction. Again, that means not running big deficits here and not squandering our surplus. It means having intelligent decisions that keep our prosperity going and shepherds that economic strength so that we can provide that leadership role.
 Let me comment on that. I'm not so sure the role of the United States is to go around the world and say this is the way it's got to be. We can help. And maybe it's just our difference in government, the way we view government. I want to empower the people. I want to help people help themselves, not have government tell people what to do. I just don't think it's the role of the United States to walk into a country and say, we do it this way, so should you. I think we can help. I know we've got to encourage democracy in the marketplaces. But take Russia, for example. We went into Russia, we said here is some IMF money, and it ended up in Viktor Chemomyrdin's pocket, and others, and yet we played like there was reform. The only people that are going to reform Russia are Russia. They're going to have to make the decision themselves. Mr. Putin is going to have to make the decision as to whether or not he wants to adhere to rule of law and normal accounting practices so that if countries and/or entities invest capital, there's a reasonable rate of return, a way to get the money out of the economy. But Russia has to make the decision. We can work with them on security matters, for example, but it's their call to make. So I'm not exactly sure where the vice president is coming from, but I think one way for us to end up being viewed as the ugly American is for us to go around the world saying, we do it this way, so should you. Now, we trust freedom. We know freedom is a powerful, powerful, powerful force, much bigger than the United States of America, as we saw recently in the Balkans. But maybe I misunderstand where you're coming from, Mr. Vice President, but I think the United States must be humble and must be proud and confident of our values, but humble in how we treat nations that are figuring out how to chart their own course.
 Lets move on. No, let's move on.
 Far be it from me to suggest otherwise. 
 First, a couple of follow-ups from the vice presidential debate last week. Vice President Gore, would you support or sign, as president, a federal law banning racial profiling by police and other authorities at all levels of government?
 Yes, I would. The only thing an executive order can accomplish is to ban it in federal law enforcement agencies, but I would also support a law in the Congress that would have the effect of doing the same thing. I just -- I think that racial profiling is a serious problem. I remember when the stories first came out about the stops in New Jersey by the highway patrol there. And I know it's been going on a long time. In some ways this is just a new label for something that has been going on for years. But I have to confess that it was the first time that I really focused on it in a new way. And I was surprised at the extent of it. And I think we've now got so many examples around the country that we really have to find ways to end this. Imagine what it -- what it is like for someone to be singled out unfairly, unjustly, and feel the unfair force of law simply because of race or ethnicity. Now, that runs counter to what the United States of America is all about at our core. And it's not an easy problem to solve. But if I am entrusted with the presidency, it will be the first Civil Rights Act of the 21st century.
 Yeah, I can't imagine what it would be like to be singled out because of race and stopped and harassed. That's just flat wrong, and that's not what America is all about. And so we ought to do everything we can to end racial profiling. One of my concerns, though, is I don't want to federalize the local police forces. I want to -- obviously in the egregious cases we need to enforce civil rights law, but we need to make sure that internal affairs decisions at the local level do their job and be given a chance to do their job. I believe in local control of governments, and obviously if they don't there needs to be a consequence at the federal level. But it's very important that we not overstep our bounds and I think most people -- most police officers are good, dedicated, honorable citizens who are doing their job, putting their lives at risk who aren't bigoted or aren't prejudiced. I don't think they ought to be held guilty. But I do think we need to find out where racial profiling occurs and do something about it and say to the local folks, get it done. And if you can't, there will be a federal consequence.
 And that could be a federal law?
 Yeah.
 And you would agree?
 I would agree. And I also agree that most police officers, of course, are doing a good job and hate this practice also. I talked to an African-American police officer in Springfield, Massachusetts not long ago who raised this question and said that in his opinion one of the biggest solutions is in the training. And not only the training in police procedures, but human relations. And I think that racial profiling is part of a larger issue of how we deal with race in America. And as for singling people out because of race, you know, James Byrd was singled out because of his race in Texas. And other Americans have been singled out because of their race or ethnicity. And that's why I think we can embody our values by passing a hate crimes law. I think these crimes are different. I think they're different because they're based on prejudice and hatred, which gives rise to crimes that have not just a single victim, but they're intended to stigmatize and dehumanize a whole group of people.
 You have a different view of that.
 No, I don't, really.
 On hate crimes laws?
 No. We've got one in Texas. And guess what? The three men who murdered James Byrd, guess what's going to happen to them? They're going to be put to death. A jury found them guilty. It's going to be hard to punish them any worse after they get put to death. And it's the right cause. It's the right decision. Secondly, there is other forms of racial profiling that goes on in America. Arab-Americans are racially profiled in what is called secret evidence. People are stopped, and we have to do something about that. My friend, Senator Spencer Abraham of Michigan, is pushing a law to make sure that Arab-Americans are treated with respect. So racial profiling isn't just an issue at local police forces. It's an issue throughout our society. And as we become a diverse society, we're going to have to deal with it more and more. I believe, though -- I believe, as sure as I'm sitting here, that most Americans really care. They're tolerant people. They're good, tolerant people. It's the very few that create most of the crises, and we just have to find them and deal with them.
 What -- if you become president, Governor, are there other areas, racial problem areas, that you would deal with as president involving discrimination? Like you said, Arab-Americans, but also Hispanics, Asians, as well as Blacks in this country.
 Let me tell you where the biggest discrimination comes. In public education when we just move children through the schools. My friend, Phyllis Hunter, is here. She had one of the greatest lines of all lines. She said, reading is the new civil right. She's right. And to make sure our society is as hopeful as it possibly can be, every single child in America must be educated. I mean every child. It starts with making sure every child learns to read. K-2 diagnostic testing so we know whether or not there's a deficiency. Curriculum that works and phonics needs to be an integral part of our reading curriculum. Intensive reading laboratories, teacher retraining. I mean, there needs to be a wholesale effort against racial profiling, which is illiterate children. We can do better in our public schools. We can close an achievement gap, and it starts with making sure we have strong accountability, Jim. One of the cornerstones of reform, and good reform, is to measure. Because when you measure you can ask the question, do they know? Is anybody being profiled? Is anybody being discriminated against? It becomes a tool, a corrective tool. And I believe the federal government must say that if you receive any money, any money from the federal government for disadvantaged children, for example, you must show us whether or not the children are learning. And if they are, fine. And if they're not, there has to be a consequence. And so to make sure we end up getting rid of basic structural prejudice is education. There is nothing more prejudiced than not educating a child.
 Vice President Gore, what would be on your racial discrimination elimination list as president?
 Well, I think we need tough enforcement of the civil rights laws. I think we still need affirmative action. I would pass a hate crimes law, as I said, and I guess I had misunderstood the governor's previous position. The Byrd family may have a misunderstanding of it in Texas also. But I would like to shift, if I could, to the big issue of education.
 Hold on one second. What is the misunderstanding? Let's clear this up.
 Well, I had thought that there was a controversy at the end of the legislative session where the hate crimes law in Texas was -- failed, and that the Byrd family, among others, asked you to support it, Governor, and it died in committee for lack of support. Am I wrong about that?
 Well, you don't realize we have a hate crimes statute? We do. GORE: I'm talking about the one that was proposed to deal --
 No -- well, what the Vice President must not understand is we've got a hate crimes bill in Texas. And secondly, the people that murdered Mr. Byrd got the ultimate punishment. The death penalty.
 They were prosecuted under the murder laws, were they not, in Texas?
 In this case when you murder somebody it's hate, Jim. The crime is hate. And they got the ultimate punishment. I'm not exactly sure how you enhance the penalty any more than the death penalty. We happen to have a statute on the books that's a hate crimes statute in Texas.
 May I respond?
 Sure.
 I don't want to jump in. I may have been misled by all the news reports about this matter, because the law that was proposed in Texas that had the support of the Byrd family and a whole lot of people in Texas did, in fact, die in committee. There may be some other statute that was already on the books, but certainly the advocates of the hate crimes law felt that a tough new law was needed. And it's important, Jim, not only -- not just because of Texas, but because this mirrors the national controversy. There is pending now in the Congress a national hate crimes law because of James Byrd, because of Matthew Shepard, who was crucified on a split rail fence by bigots, and because of others. And that law has died in committee also because of the same kind of opposition.
 And you would support that bill.
 Absolutely.
 Would you support a national hate crimes law?
 I would support the Orrin Hatch version of it, not the Senator Kennedy version. But let me say to you, Mr. Vice President, we're happy with our laws on our books. That bill did -- there was another bill that did die in committee. But I want to repeat, if you have a state that fully supports the law like we do in Texas, we're going to go after all crime. And we're going to make sure people get punished for the crime. And in this case we can't enhance the penalty any more than putting those three thugs to deaths. And that's what's gonna happen in the State of Texas.
 New subject, new question. Another vice presidential debate follow-up. Governor, both Senator Lieberman and Secretary Cheney said they were sympathetically rethinking their views on same sex relationships. What's your position on that?
 I'm not for gay marriage. I think marriage is a sacred institution between a man and a woman. And I appreciated the way the administration signed the Defense of Marriage Act. I presume the Vice President supported it when the President signed that bill and supports it now. But I think marriage is a sacred institution. I'm going to be respectful for people who may disagree with me. I've had a record of doing so in the State of Texas. I've been a person that had been called a uniter, not a divider, because I accept other people's points of view. But I feel strongly that marriage should be between a man and a woman.
 Vice President Gore?
 I agree with that, and I did support that law. But I think that we should find a way to allow some kind of civic unions, and I basically agree with Dick Cheney and Joe Lieberman. And I think the three of us have one view and the Governor has another view.
 Is that right?
 I'm not sure what kind of view he's describing to me. I can just tell you, I'm a person who respects other people. I respect their -- I respect -- on the one hand he says he agrees with me and then he says he doesn't. I'm not sure where he's coming from. But I will be a tolerant person. I've been a tolerant person all my life. I just happen to believe strongly that marriage is between a man and a woman.
 Do you believe in general terms that gays and lesbians should have the same rights as other Americans?
 Yes. I don't think they ought to have special rights, but I think they ought to have the same rights.
 Well, there's a law pending called the Employment Non-Discrimination Act. I strongly support it. What it says is that gays and lesbians can't be fired from their job because they're gay or lesbian. And it would be a federal law preventing that. Now, I wonder if the -- it's been blocked by the opponents in the majority in the Congress. I wonder if the Governor who lend his support to that law.
 Governor?
 The question --
 Well, but it's a logical response.
 Well, I have no idea. I mean, he can throw out all kinds -- I don't know the particulars of this law. I will tell you I'm the kind of person, I don't hire or fire somebody based upon their sexual orientation. As a matter of fact, I would like to take the issue a little further. I don't really think it's any of my -- you know, any of my concerns what -- how you conduct your sex life. And I think that's a private matter. And I think that's the way it ought to be. But I'm going to be respectful for people, I'll tolerate people, and I support equal rights but not special rights for people.
 Special rights, how does that affect gays and lesbians?
 Well, it would be if they're given special protective status. That doesn't mean we shouldn't fully enforce laws and fully protect people and fully honor people, which I will do as the President of the United States.
 New subject, new question, Vice President Gore. How do you see the connection between controlling gun sales in this country and the incidence of death by accidental or intentional use of guns?
 Jim, I hope that we can come back to the subject of education because the governor made an extensive statement on it and I have a very different view than the one he expressed. But that having been said, I believe that -- well, first of all, let me say that the governor and I agree on some things where this subject is concerned. I will not do anything to affect the rights of hunters or sportsmen. I think that homeowners have to be respected and their right to have a gun if they wish to. The problem I see is that there are too many guns getting into the hands of children, and criminals, and people who, for whatever reason, some kind of history of stalking or domestic abuse really should not be able to get guns. I think these assault weapons are a problem. So I favor closing the gun show loophole. In fact, I cast the tie-breaking vote to close it, but then the majority in the House of Representatives went the other way. That's still pending. If we could get agreement on that, maybe they could pass that in the final days of this Congress. I think we ought to restore the three-day waiting period under the Brady Law. I think we should toughen the enforcement of gun laws so that the ones that are already on the books can be enforced much more effectively. Some of the restrictions that have been placed by the Congress in the last couple of years. I think -- in the last few years I think have been unfortunate. I think that we ought to make all schools gun free. Have a gun-free zone around every school in this country. I think that measures like these are important. Child safety trigger locks on a mandatory basis, and others.
 Governor?
 Well, it starts with enforcing law. When you say loud and clear to somebody if you're going to carry a gun illegally, we're going to arrest you. If you're going to sell a gun illegally, you need to be arrested. If you commit a crime with a gun, there needs to be absolute certainty in the law. And that means that the local law enforcement officials need help at the federal level. Programs like Project Exile where the federal government intensifies arresting people who illegally use guns. And we haven't done a very good job of that at the federal level recently. And I'm going to make it a priority. Secondly, I don't think we ought to be selling guns to people who shouldn't have them. That's why I support instant background checks at gun shows. One of the reasons we have an instant background check is so that we instantly know whether or not somebody should have a gun or not. In Texas I tried to do something innovative. There's a lot of talk about trigger locks being on guns sold in the future. I support that. But I said if you want a trigger lock to make your gun safe, come and get one for free. So we're distributing in our State of Texas for free. I think we ought to raise the age at which a juvenile can carry a handgun from 18 to 21. I disagree with the vice president on this issue. He is for registration of guns. I think the only people that are going to show up to register or get a license -- I guess licensing like a driver's license for a gun, the only people that are going to show up are law-abiding citizens. The criminal is not going to show up and say hey, give me my I.D. card. It's the law-abiding citizens who will do that. An I don't think that is going to be an effective tool to make the -- keep our society safe.
 All right. So on guns, somebody wants to cast a vote based on your differences, where are the differences?
 Well, I'm not for registration. I am for licensing by states of new handgun purchases.
 What's that mean?
 A photo license I.D. like a driver's license for new handguns and, you know, the Los Angeles --
 Excuse me, you would have to get the license -- a photo I.D. to go in and before you could buy the gun?
 Correct.
 All right. Who would issue the --
 The state. The state. I think states should do that for new handguns, because too many criminals are getting guns. There was a recent investigation of the number in Texas who got -- who were given concealed weapons permits in spite of the fact that they had records. And the "Los Angeles Times" spent a lot of ink going into that. But I am not for doing anything that would affect hunters or sportsmen, rifles, shotguns, existing handguns. I do think that sensible gun safety measures are warranted now. Look, this is the year -- this is in the aftermath of Columbine, and Paducah, and all the places in our country where the nation has been shocked by these weapons in the hands of the wrong people. The woman who bought the guns for the two boys who did that killing at Columbine said that if she had had to give her name and fill out a form there, she would not have bought those guns. That conceivably could have prevented that tragedy.
 Back to the question about the differences on gun control. What are they, Governor, from your point of view, between you and the Vice President?
 Well, I'm not for photo licensing. Let me say something about Columbine. Listen, we've got gun laws. He says we ought to have gun-free schools. Everybody believes that. I'm sure every state in the union has got them. You can't carry a gun into a school. And there ought to be a consequence when you do carry a gun into a school. But Columbine spoke to a larger issue. It's really a matter of culture. It's a culture that somewhere along the line we've begun to disrespect life. Where a child can walk in and have their heart turned dark as a result of being on the Internet and walk in and decide to take somebody else's life? So gun laws are important, no question about it, but so is loving children, and character education classes, and faith-based programs being a part of after-school programs. Some desperate child needs to have somebody put their arm around them and say, we love you. So there's a -- this is a society that -- of ours that's got to do a better job of teaching children right from wrong. And we can enforce law. But there seems to be a lot of preoccupation on -- not certainly only in this debate, but just in general on law. But there's a larger law. Love your neighbor like you would like to be loved yourself. And that's where our society must head if we're going to be a peaceful and prosperous society.
 I also believe in the Golden Rule. And I agree with a lot of the other things that the governor has said. We do have a serious problem in our culture. Tipper and I have worked on the problem of violence in entertainment aimed at children. She's worked on it longer than I have. But I feel very strongly about that. And if I'm elected president, I will do something about that. But I think that we -- I think we have to start with better parenting. But I don't think that we can ignore the role played by guns. I mean, the fact is that there -- even though no state wants them, there are guns in some schools. And the reason it's so difficult for schools to control that is because in recent years there has been a flood of cheap handguns that are so widely available that kids are finding ways to get ahold of them. And I think that if you look at the situation as it exists here in the United States compared to any other country in the world, it seems to me pretty obvious that while we respect the rights of hunters and sportsmen, we do need some common sense gun safety steps to stem this flood of guns that are getting into the wrong hands.
 Yeah, no question about that, but there also needs to be strong enforcement of the law. Some kid who feels like -- doesn't matter where the gun comes from, it could be a cheap gun, expensive gun. What matters is something in this person's head says there is not going to be a consequence. So in my state we toughen up the juvenile justice laws. We added beds. We're tough. We believe in tough love. We say, if you get caught carrying a gun, you're automatically detained. And that's what needs to happen. We've got laws. If laws need to be strengthened, like instant background checks, that's important.
 New question. As I was saying. Both of you -- Governor, both of you have talked much about Medicare and health care for seniors. What about the more than 40 million younger Americans who do not have health insurance right now? What would you do about that?
 Well, I've got a plan to do something about that. It's to make health care affordable and available this way. First, there's some who should be buying health care who choose not to. There's some --
 Some of the 40 million.
 Some of the healthy folks, healthy young kids say I'll never get sick, therefore I don't need health care right now. For those what I think we need to do is to develop an investment-type vehicle that would be an incentive for them to invest, like medical savings accounts with rollover capacity. In other words, you say to a youngster, it will be in your financial interest to start saving for future illness, but for the working folks that do want to have health care that can't afford it, a couple of things we need to do. One, we need more community health centers. I've developed -- put out money in my budget to expand community health centers all around the country. These are places where people can get primary care. Secondly -- and they're good. They're very important parts of the safety net of health care. Secondly, that you get a $2,000 rebate from the government if you're a family of $30,000 or less -- it scales down as you get higher -- that you can use to purchase health care in the private markets. It will be a huge down payment for a pretty darn good system. If you allow -- also allow -- convince states to -- allow states to allow the mother to match some of the children's health insurance money with it, the pool purchasing power. And to make health care more affordable, allow business associations like the National Federal of Independent Business or the Chamber of Commerce or the National Restaurant Association to write association plans across jurisdictional lines so that small businesses have got the capacity to have national pooling to drive the cost of insurance down. I think that's the very best way to go. It empowers people, it trusts people, it makes -- and it's a practical way to encourage people to purchase health care insurance.
 Vice President Gore?
 It's one of my top priorities, Jim, to give every single child in the United States affordable health care within the next four years. I would like to see eventually in this country some form of universal health care, but I'm not for a government-run system. In fact, I'm for shrinking the size of government. I want a smaller and smarter government. I have been in charge of this reinventing government streamlining project that's reduced the size of government by more than 300,000 people in the last several years. And the budget plan that I've put out, according to the "Los Angeles Times" again, the way these things are typically measured as a percentage of the GDP, will bring government spending down to the lowest level in 50 years. So I want to proceed carefully to cover more people. But I think we should start by greatly expanding the so-called child health insurance or CHIP program to give health insurance to every single child in this country. I think it's intolerable that we have so many millions of children without any health insurance. So it's one of my top priorities. Now, I know that we have some disagreements on this. And I'm sorry to tell you that, you know, there is a record here. And Texas ranks 49th out of the 50 states in health care -- in children with health care. 49th for women with health care, and 50th for families with health care. So it is a priority for me. I guarantee you. I'm not aware of any program -- well, I'll just leave it at that. I think it ought to be a top priority.
 Governor, did the -- are the vice president's figures correct about Texas?
 First of all, let me say he's not for a government-run health care system? I thought that's exactly what he and Mrs. Clinton and them fought for in 1993 was a government-run health care system. It was fortunately stopped in its tracks. Secondly, we spend $4.7 billion a year on the uninsured in the State of Texas. Our rate of uninsured, the percentage of uninsured in Texas has gone down, while the percentage of uninsured in America has gone up. Our CHIPS program got a late start because our government meets only four months out of every two years, Mr. Vice President. It may come as a shock for somebody who has been in Washington for so long. But actually limited government can work in the second largest state in the union. And therefore Congress passes the bill after our session in 1997 ended, we passed an enabling legislation in 1999. We've signed up over 110,000 children to the CHIPS program. For comparable states our size, we're signing them up as fast as any other state. You can quote all the numbers you want, but I'm telling you we care about our people in Texas. We spent a lot of money to make sure people get health care in the State of Texas, and we're doing a better job than they are at the national level for reducing uninsured.
 Is he right?
 Well, I don't know about all these percentages that he throws out, but I do know that -- I speculate that the reason why he didn't answer your question directly as to whether my numbers were right, the facts were right about Texas ranking dead last in families with health insurance and 49th out of 50 for both children and women, is because those facts are correct. And as for why it happened, I'm no expert on the Texas procedures, but what my friends there tell me is that the governor opposed a measure put forward by Democrats in the legislature to expand the number of children that would be covered. And instead directed the money toward a tax cut, a significant part of which went to wealthy interests. He declared the need for a new tax cut for the oil companies in Texas an emergency need, and so the money was taken away from the CHIP program. There's -- you don't have to take my word for this. There is now a federal judge's opinion about the current management of this program ordering the State of Texas to do -- you should read that judge's language about this. I believe there are 1.4 million children in Texas who do not have health insurance. 600,000 of whom, and maybe some of those have since gotten it, but as of a year ago 600,000 of them were actually eligible for it but they couldn't sign up for it because of the barriers that they had set up.
 Let's let the governor respond to that. Are those numbers correct? Are his charges correct?
 If he's trying to allege that I'm a hard-hearted person and I don't care about children, he's absolutely wrong. We've spent $4.7 billion a year in the State of Texas for uninsured people. And they get health care. Now, it's not the most efficient way to get people health care. But I want to remind you, the number of uninsured in America during their watch has increased. He can make any excuse he wants, but the facts are that we're reducing the number of uninsured percentage of our population. And as the percentage of the population is increasing nationally, somehow the allegation that we don't care and we're going to give money for this interest or that interest and not for children in the State of Texas is totally absurd. Let me just tell you who the jury is. The people of Texas. There's only been one governor ever elected to back-to-back four-year terms, and that was me. And I was able to do so with a lot of Democrat votes, nearly 50% of the Hispanic vote, about 27% of the African-American vote, because people know I'm a conservative person and a compassionate person. So he can throw all the kinds of numbers around. I'm just telling you our state comes together to do what is right. We come together both Republicans and Democrats.
 Let me put that directly to you, Vice President Gore. The reason you brought this up, is it -- are you suggesting that those numbers and that record will reflect the way Governor Bush will operate in this area of health insurance as president?
 Yes, yes. But it's not a statement about his heart. I don't claim to know his heart. I think he's a good person. I make no allegations about that. I believe him when he says that he has a good heart. I know enough about your story to admire a lot of the things that you have done as a person. But I think it's about his priorities. And let me tell you exactly why I think that the choice he made to give a tax cut for the oil companies and others before addressing this -- I mean, if you were the governor of a state that was dead last in health care for families, and all of a sudden you found yourself with the biggest surplus your state had ever had in its history, wouldn't you want to maybe use some of it to climb from 50th to, say, 45 or 40 or something or maybe better? I would. Now, but here is why it's directly relevant, Jim. Because by his own budget numbers, his proposals for spending on tax cuts for the wealthiest of the wealthy are more than the new spending proposals that he has made for health care and education and national defense all combined. According to his own numbers. So it's not a question of his heart, as far as I know. It's a question of priorities and values. See, you know --
 Let me ask --
 First of all, that's simply not true what he just said, of course. And secondly, I repeat to you --
 What is not true, Governor?
 That we spent -- the top 1% receive 223 as opposed to 445 billion in new spending. The top -- let's talk about my tax plan. The top 1% will pay one-third of all the federal income taxes. And in return, get one-fifth of the benefits, because most of the tax reductions go to the people at the bottom end of the economic ladder. That stands in stark contrast, by the way, to a man who is going to leave 50 million -- 50 million Americans out of tax relief. We just have a different point of view. It's a totally different point of view. He believes only the right people ought to get tax relief. I believe everybody who pays taxes ought to get tax relief. Let me go back to Texas, for example, for a minute. We pay 4.7 billion. I can't emphasize to you how much. I signed a bill that puts CHIPS in place. The bill finally came out at the end of the 1999 session. We're working hard to sign up children. We're doing it faster than any other state our size, comparable state. We're making really good progress. And our state cares a lot about our children. My priority is going to be the health of our citizens. These folks have had eight years to get something done in Washington, D.C. on the uninsured. They have not done it. They've had eight years to get something done on Medicare. And they have not got it done. And my case to the American people is, if you're happy with inactivity, stay with the horse. The horse is up there now. But if you want change, you need to get somebody that knows how to bring Republicans and Democrats together to get positive things done for American.
 New question, new subject. Vice President Gore, on the environment. In your 1992 book you said, quote, "We must make the rescue of our environment the central organizing principle for civilization and there must be a wrenching transformation to save the planet." Do you still feel that way?
 I do. I think that in this 21st century we will soon see the consequences of what's called global warming. There was a study just a few weeks ago suggesting that in summertime the north polar ice cap will be completely gone in 50 years. Already people see the strange weather conditions that the old timers say they've never seen before in their lifetimes. And what's happening is the level of pollution is increasing significantly. Now, here is the good news, Jim. If we take the leadership role and build the new technologies, like the new kinds of cars and trucks that Detroit is itching to build, then we can create millions of good new jobs by being first into the market with these new kinds of cars and trucks and other kinds of technologies. You know the Japanese are breathing down our necks on this. They're moving very rapidly because they know that it is a fast-growing world market. Some of these other countries, particularly in the developing world, their pollution is much worse than anywhere else and their people want higher standards of living. And so they're looking for ways to satisfy their desire for a better life and still reduce pollution at the same time. I think that holding onto the old ways and the old argument that the environment and the economy are in conflict is really outdated. We have to be bold. We have to provide leadership. Now it's true that we disagree on this. The governor said that he doesn't think this problem is necessarily caused by people. He's for letting the oil companies into the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. Houston has just become the smoggiest city in the country. And Texas is number one in industrial pollution. We have a very different outlook. And I'll tell you this, I will fight for a clean environment in ways that strengthen our economy.
 Governor?
 Well, let me start with Texas. We are a big industrial state. We reduced our industrial waste by 11%. We cleaned up more brown fields than any other administration in my state's history, 450 of them. Our water is cleaner now.
 Explain what a brown field is to those who don't follow this.
 A brown field is an abandoned industrial site that just sits idle in some of our urban centers. And people are willing to invest capital in the brown fields don't want to do so for fear of lawsuit. I think we ought to have federal liability protection, depending upon whether or not standards have been met. The book you mentioned that Vice President Gore wrote, he also called for taxing -- big energy taxes in order to clean up the environment. And now that the energy prices are high, I guess he's not advocating those big energy taxes right now. I believe we ought to fully fund the Land and Water Conservation Fund to -- with half the money going to states so states can make the right decisions for environmental quality. I think we need to have clean coal technologies. I propose $2 billion worth. By the way, I just found out the other day an interesting fact, that there is a national petroleum reserve right next to -- in Prudhoe Bay that your administration opened up for exploration in that pristine area. And it was a smart move because there's gas reserves up there. We need gas pipelines to bring the gas down. Gas is a clean fuel that we can burn to -- we need to make sure that if we decontrol our plants that there's mandatory -- that the plants must conform to clean air standards, the grandfathered plants, that's what we did in Texas. No excuses. You must conform. In other words, there are practical things we can do. But it starts with working in a collaborative effort with states and local folks. If you own the land, every day is Earth Day. People care a lot about their land and care about their environment. Not all wisdom is in Washington, D.C. on this issue.
 Where do you see the basic difference in very simple terms in two or three sentences between you and the governor on the environment? If a voter wants to make a choice, what is it?
 I'm really strongly committed to clean water and clean air, and cleaning up the new kinds of challenges like global warming. He is right that I'm not in favor of energy taxes. I am in favor of tax cuts to encourage and give incentives for the quicker development of these new kinds of technologies. And let me say again, Detroit is rearing to go on that. We differ on the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, as I have said. We differ on whether or not pollution controls ought to be voluntary. I don't think you can -- I don't think you can get results that way. We differ on the kinds of appointments that we would make.
 Would you say it's a fundamental difference?
 I think it's a fundamental difference. Let me give you an example.
 Hold on one second.
 Okay, sure.
 We've talked about supply. I just want to know for somebody -- we're getting close to the end of our time here. If somebody wanted to vote on the environment, how would you draw the differences, Governor?
 Well, I don't believe in command and control out of Washington, D.C. I believe Washington ought to set standards, but again I think we ought to be collaborative at the local levels and I think we ought to work with people at the local levels. And by the way, I just want to make sure -- I can't let him just say something and not correct it. The electric decontrol bill that I fought for and signed in Texas has mandatory emission standards, Mr. Vice President. That's what we ought to do at the federal level when it comes to grandfathered plants for utilities. I think there's a difference. I think, for example, take -- when they took 40 million acres of land out of circulation without consulting local officials, I thought that was --
 That was out in the west?
 Out in the west, yeah. And so -- on the logging issue. That's not the way I would have done it. Perhaps some of that land needs to be set aside. But I certainly would have consulted with governors and elected officials before I would have acted unilaterally.
 Would you believe the federal government still has some new rules and new regulations and new laws to pass in the environmental area or do you think --
 Sure, absolutely, so long as they're based upon science and they're reasonable. So long as people have input.
 What about global warming?
 I think it's an issue that we need to take very seriously. But I don't think we know the solution to global warming yet. And I don't think we've got all the facts before we make decisions. I tell you one thing I'm not going to do is I'm not going to let the United States carry the burden for cleaning up the world's air. Like Kyoto Treaty would have done. China and India were exempted from that treaty. I think we need to be more even-handed, as evidently 99 senators -- I think it was 99 senators supported that position.
 Global warming, the Senate did turn it down. I think --
 99 to nothing.
 Well, that vote wasn't exactly -- a lot of the supporters of the Kyoto Treaty actually ended up voting for that because the way it was worded. But there's no doubt there's a lot of opposition to it in the Senate. I'm not for command and control techniques either. I'm for working with the groups, not just with industry but also with the citizen groups and local communities to control sprawl in ways that the local communities themselves come up with. But I disagree that we don't know the cause of global warming. I think that we do. It's pollution, carbon dioxide, and other chemicals that are even more potent, but in smaller quantities, that cause this. Look, the world's temperature is going up, weather patterns are changing, storms are getting more violent and unpredictable. What are we going to tell our children? I'm a grandfather now. I want to be able to tell my grandson when I'm in my later years that I didn't turn away from the evidence that showed that we were doing some serious harm. In my faith tradition, it is -- it's written in the book of Matthew, "Where your heart is, there is your treasure also." And I believe that -- that we ought to recognize the value to our children and grandchildren of taking steps that preserve the environment in a way that's good for them.
 Yeah, I agree. I just -- I think there has been -- some of the scientists, I believe, Mr. Vice President, haven't they been changing their opinion a little bit on global warming? A profound scientist recently made a different --
 Both of you have now violated -- excuse me. Both of you have now violated your own rules. Hold that thought.
 I've been trying so hard not to.
 I know, I know. But under your alls rules you are not allowed to ask each other a question. I let you do it a moment ago.
 Twice.
 Now you just -- twice, sorry. 
 That's an interruption, by the way.
 That's an interruption, okay. But anyhow, you just did it so now --
 I'm sorry. I apologize, Mr. Vice President.
 You aren't allowed to do that either, see?  I'm sorry, go ahead and finish your thought. People care about these things I've found out.
 Of course they care about them. Oh, you mean the rules.
 Yeah, right, exactly right. Go ahead.
 What the heck. I -- of course there's a lot -- look, global warming needs to be taken very seriously, and I take it seriously. But science, there's a lot -- there's differing opinions. And before we react, I think it's best to have the full accounting, full understanding of what's taking place. And I think to answer your question, I think both of us care a lot about the environment. We may have different approaches. We may have different approaches in terms of how we deal with local folks. I just cited an example of the administration just unilaterally acting without any input. And I remember you gave a very good answer to New Hampshire about the White Mountains, about how it was important to keep that collaborative effort in place. I feel very strongly the same place. It certainly wasn't the attitude that took place out west, however.
 New question. Last question. For you, Governor. And this flows somewhat out of the Boston debate. You, your running mate, your campaign officials have charged that Vice President Gore exaggerates, embellishes and stretches the facts, etcetera. Are you -- do you believe these are serious issues? This is a serious issue that the voters should use in deciding which one of you two men to vote for on November 7?
 Well, we all make mistakes. I've been known to mangle a syllable or two myself, you know, if you know what I mean. I think credibility is important. It is going to be important for the president to be credible with Congress, important for the president to be credible with foreign nations. And yes, I think it's something that people need to consider. This isn't something new. I read a report, or a memo, from somebody in his 1988 campaign -- I forgot the fellow's name -- warning then Senator Gore to be careful about exaggerating claims. I thought during his debate with Senator Bradley saying he authored the EITC when it didn't happen. I mention the last debate --
 EITC?
 The Earned Income Tax Credit, sorry.
 That's all right.
 A lot of initials from a guy who's not from Washington, isn't it? Anyway, he co-sponsored McCain-Feingold, and yet he didn't. And so I think this is an issue. I found it to be an issue in trying to defend my tax relief package. I thought there was some exaggerations about the numbers. But the people are going to have to make up their mind on this issue. And I am going to continue to defend my record and defend my propositions against what I think are exaggerations. Exaggerations like, for example, only 5% of seniors receive benefits under my Medicare reform package. That's what he said the other day, and that's simply not the case. And I have every right in the world to defend my record and positions. That's what debates are about and that's what campaigns are about.
 Vice President Gore?
 I got some of the details wrong last week in some of the examples that I used, Jim, and I'm sorry about that. And I'm going to try to do better. One of the reasons I regret it is that getting a detail wrong interfered several times with the point that I was trying to make. However many days that young girl in Florida stood in her classroom, however long, even if it was only one day, doesn't change the fact that there are a lot of overcrowded classrooms in America and we need to do something about that. There are seniors who pay more for their prescriptions than a lot of other people, more than their pets, sometimes. More sometimes than people in foreign countries. And we need to do something about that. Not with the measure that leaves the majority of them without any real basic help until the next president's term of four years is over. But right away. And that means doing it under the Medicare program. I can't promise that I will never get another detail wrong. I can promise you that I will try not to, and hard. But I will promise you this with all the confidence in my heart and in the world, that I will do my best if I'm elected president, I'll work my heart out to get the big things right for the American people.
 Does that resolve the issue, Governor?
 That's going to be up to the people, isn't it?
 Does it resolve it for you?
 Depends on what he says in the future in the campaign.
 Your folks are saying some awful things.
 I hope they're not awful things. I think they may be using the man's own words.
 Well, what I mean is calling him a serial exaggerator --
 I don't believe I've used those words.
 No, but your campaign ads.
 Maybe they have.
 And your campaign officials have. And your campaign officials, Mr. Vice President, are now calling the governor a bumbler.
 Wait a minute. 
 I mean, my point is, should this -- is this --
 I don't use language like that and I don't think that we should.
 It's in your commercial.
 I understand. The -- I haven't seen that, in my commercials?
 You haven't seen the commercial?
 Your --
 I think that what -- I think the point of that is that anybody would have a hard time trying to make a tax cut plan that is so large, that would put us into such big deficits, that gives almost half the benefits to the wealthiest of the wealthy. I think anybody would have a hard time explaining that clearly in a way that makes sense to the average person.
 That's the kind of exaggeration I was just talking about. 
 Well, I wasn't the one having trouble explaining it.
 Gentlemen, it's time to go to the closing statements. And Vice President Gore, you have two minutes.
 Jim, one of the issues that I would like to close with in my statement is education, because it's an example of the overall approach that I think is important. This race is about values, it's about change, it's about giving choices to the American people. And education is my number one priority, because I think that it's the most important big major change that we can bring in our country. I agree with Governor Bush that we should have new accountability, testing of students. I think that we should require states to test all students, test schools and school districts, and I think that we should go further and require teacher testing for new teachers also. The difference is that while my plan starts with new accountability and maintains local control, it doesn't stop there. Because I want to give new choices to parents. To send their kids to college with a $10,000 tax deduction for college tuition per child per year. I want to reduce the size of the classrooms in this country. For one basic reason, so that students can get more one-on-one time with teachers. And the way to do that is first to recruit more teachers. I've a plan in my budget to recruit 100,000 new, highly qualified teachers and to help local school districts build new schools. I think that we have to put more emphasis on early learning and pre-school. Now, here is how that connects with all the rest of what we've been talking about. If you have -- if you squander the surplus on a huge tax cut that goes mostly to those at the top, then you can't make education the top priority. If the tax cut is your number one, two, three and four priority, you can't do education. You can't do both. You have to choose. I choose education and health care, the environment and retirement security, and I ask for your support.
 Governor Bush, two minutes.
 Jim, thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, thank you very much, and I would like to thank the folks here at Wake Forest, and I want to thank you all for listening. I'm running to get some things done for America. There's too many issues left unresolved. There's been too much finger pointing and too much name calling in Washington, D.C. I would like to unite this country to get an agenda done that will speak to the hopes and aspirations of the future. I want to have an education system that sets high standards, local control of schools and strong accountability. No child should be left behind in America. I want to make sure we rebuild our military to keep the peace. I worry about morale in today's military. The warning signs are clear. It is time to have a new commander in chief who will rebuild the military, pay our men and women more, make sure they're housed better and have a focused mission for our military. Once and for all, I want to do something about Medicare. This issue has been too long on the table because it's been a political issue. It's time to bring folks together to say that all seniors will get prescription drug coverage. I want to do something about Social Security. It's an important priority, because now is the time to act and we're going to say to our seniors, our promises we've made to you will be promises kept. But younger workers, in order to make sure the system exists tomorrow, younger workers ought to be able to take some of your own money and invest it in safe securities to get a better rate of return on that money. And finally, I do believe in tax relief. I believe we can set our priorities. I don't believe, like the vice president does, in huge government. I believe in limited government. By having a limited government and a focused government, we can send some of the money back to the people who pay the bills. I want to have tax relief for all people who pay the bills in America, because I think you can spend your money more wisely than the federal government can. Thank you for listening. I'm asking for your vote, and God bless.
 And we will return next Tuesday night, October 17th, from Washington University in St. Louis for the third and final debate. Thank you, Vice President Gore, Governor Bush. See you next week. For now, from Winston-Salem, I'm Jim Lehrer, thank you and good night.











Debate Transcript
October 13, 2004
The Third Bush-Kerry Presidential Debate
THIRD PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES' DEBATE ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY, TEMPE, ARIZONA
SPEAKERS
GEORGE W. BUSH PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
U. S. SENATOR JOHN F. KERRY (MA) DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE 
BOB SCHIEFFER CBS ANCHOR
 
 Good evening from Arizona State University in Tempe, Arizona. I'm Bob Schieffer of CBS News. I want to welcome you to the third and last of the 2004 debates between President George Bush and Senator John Kerry. 
As Jim Lehrer told you before the first one, these debates are sponsored by the Commission on Presidential Debates. 
Tonight the topic will be domestic affairs, but the format will be the same as that first debate. I'll moderate our discussion under detailed rules agreed to by the candidates, but the questions and the areas to be covered were chosen by me. I have not told the candidates or anyone else what they are. 
To refresh your memory on the rules, I will ask a question. The candidate is allowed two minutes to answer. His opponent then has a minute and a half to offer a rebuttal. 
At my discretion, I can extend the discussion by offering each candidate an additional 30 seconds. 
A green light will come on to signal the candidate has 30 seconds left. A yellow light signals 15 seconds left. A red light means five seconds left. 
There is also a buzzer, if it is needed. 
The candidates may not question each other directly. There are no opening statements, but there will be two-minute closing statements. 
There is an audience here tonight, but they have agreed to remain silent, except for right now, when they join me in welcoming President George Bush and Senator John Kerry. 

Gentlemen, welcome to you both. 
By coin toss, the first question goes to Senator Kerry. 
Senator, I want to set the stage for this discussion by asking the question that I think hangs over all of our politics today and is probably on the minds of many people watching this debate tonight. 
And that is, will our children and grandchildren ever live in a world as safe and secure as the world in which we grew up? 
 Well, first of all, Bob, thank you for moderating tonight. 
Thank you, Arizona State, for welcoming us. 
And thank you to the Presidential Commission for undertaking this enormous task. We're proud to be here. 
Mr. President, I'm glad to be here with you again to share similarities and differences with the American people. 
Will we ever be safe and secure again? Yes. We absolutely must be. That's the goal. 
Now, how do we achieve it is the most critical component of it. 
I believe that this president, regrettably, rushed us into a war, made decisions about foreign policy, pushed alliances away. And, as a result, America is now bearing this extraordinary burden where we are not as safe as we ought to be. 
The measurement is not: Are we safer? The measurement is: Are we as safe as we ought to be? And there are a host of options that this president had available to him, like making sure that at all our ports in America containers are inspected. Only 95 percent of them -- 95 percent come in today uninspected. That's not good enough. 
People who fly on airplanes today, the cargo hold is not X-rayed, but the baggage is. That's not good enough. Firehouses don't have enough firefighters in them. Police officers are being cut from the streets of America because the president decided to cut the COPS program. 
So we can do a better job of homeland security. I can do a better job of waging a smarter, more effective war on terror and guarantee that we will go after the terrorists. 
I will hunt them down, and we'll kill them, we'll capture them. We'll do whatever is necessary to be safe. 
But I pledge this to you, America: I will do it in the way that Franklin Roosevelt and Ronald Reagan and John Kennedy and others did, where we build the strongest alliances, where the world joins together, where we have the best intelligence and where we are able, ultimately, to be more safe and secure. 
 Mr. President, you have 90 seconds. 
 Thank you very much. 
I want to thank Arizona State as well. 
Yes, we can be safe and secure, if we stay on the offense against the terrorists and if we spread freedom and liberty around the world. 
I have got a comprehensive strategy to not only chase down the Al Qaida, wherever it exists -- and we're making progress; three-quarters of Al Qaida leaders have been brought to justice -- but to make sure that countries that harbor terrorists are held to account. 
As a result of securing ourselves and ridding the Taliban out of Afghanistan, the Afghan people had elections this weekend. And the first voter was a 19-year-old woman. Think about that. Freedom is on the march. 
We held to account a terrorist regime in Saddam Hussein. 
In other words, in order to make sure we're secure, there must be a comprehensive plan. My opponent just this weekend talked about how terrorism could be reduced to a nuisance, comparing it to prostitution, illegal gambling. I think that attitude and that point of view is dangerous. I don't think you can secure America for the long run if you don't have a comprehensive view as to how to defeat these people. 
At home, we'll do everything we can to protect the homeland. I signed the homeland security bill to better align our assets and resources. My opponent voted against it. 
We're doing everything we can to protect our borders and ports. 
But absolutely we can be secure in the long run. It just takes good, strong leadership. 
 Anything to add, Senator Kerry? 
 Yes. When the president had an opportunity to capture or kill Osama bin Laden, he took his focus off of them, outsourced the job to Afghan warlords, and Osama bin Laden escaped. 
Six months after he said Osama bin Laden must be caught dead or alive, this president was asked, "Where is Osama bin Laden? " He said, "I don't know. I don't really think about him very much. I'm not that concerned. "
We need a president who stays deadly focused on the real war on terror. 
 Mr. President? 
 Gosh, I just don't think I ever said I'm not worried about Osama bin Laden. It's kind of one of those exaggerations. 
Of course we're worried about Osama bin Laden. We're on the hunt after Osama bin Laden. We're using every asset at our disposal to get Osama bin Laden. 
My opponent said this war is a matter of intelligence and law enforcement. No, this war is a matter of using every asset at our disposal to keep the American people protected. 
 New question, Mr. President, to you. 
We are talking about protecting ourselves from the unexpected, but the flu season is suddenly upon us. Flu kills thousands of people every year. 
Suddenly we find ourselves with a severe shortage of flu vaccine. How did that happen? 
 Bob, we relied upon a company out of England to provide about half of the flu vaccines for the United States citizen, and it turned out that the vaccine they were producing was contaminated. And so we took the right action and didn't allow contaminated medicine into our country. We're working with Canada to hopefully -- that they'll produce a -- help us realize the vaccine necessary to make sure our citizens have got flu vaccinations during this upcoming season. 
My call to our fellow Americans is if you're healthy, if you're younger, don't get a flu shot this year. Help us prioritize those who need to get the flu shot, the elderly and the young. 
The CDC, responsible for health in the United States, is setting those priorities and is allocating the flu vaccine accordingly. 
I haven't gotten a flu shot, and I don't intend to because I want to make sure those who are most vulnerable get treated. 
We have a problem with litigation in the United States of America. Vaccine manufacturers are worried about getting sued, and therefore they have backed off from providing this kind of vaccine. 
One of the reasons I'm such a strong believer in legal reform is so that people aren't afraid of producing a product that is necessary for the health of our citizens and then end up getting sued in a court of law. 
But the best thing we can do now, Bob, given the circumstances with the company in England is for those of us who are younger and healthy, don't get a flu shot. 
 Senator Kerry? 
 This really underscores the problem with the American health-care system. It's not working for the American family. And it's gotten worse under President Bush over the course of the last years. 
Five million Americans have lost their health insurance in this country. You've got about a million right here in Arizona, just shy, 950,000, who have no health insurance at all. 82,000 Arizonians lost their health insurance under President Bush's watch. 223,000 kids in Arizona have no health insurance at all. 
All across our country -- go to Ohio, 1. 4 million Ohioans have no health insurance, 114,000 of them lost it under President Bush; Wisconsin, 82,000 Wisconsinites lost it under President Bush. 
This president has turned his back on the wellness of America. And there is no system. In fact, it's starting to fall apart not because of lawsuits -- though they are a problem, and John Edwards and I are committed to fixing them -- but because of the larger issue that we don't cover Americans. 
Children across our country don't have health care. We're the richest country on the face of the planet, the only industrialized nation in the world not to do it. 
I have a plan to cover all Americans. We're going to make it affordable and accessible. We're going to let everybody buy into the same health-care plan senators and congressmen give themselves. 
 Mr. President, would you like to add something? 
 I would. Thank you. 
I want to remind people listening tonight that a plan is not a litany of complaints, and a plan is not to lay out programs that you can't pay for. 
He just said he wants everybody to be able to buy in to the same plan that senators and congressmen get. That costs the government $7,700 per family. If every family in America signed up, like the senator suggested, if would cost us $5 trillion over 10 years. 
It's an empty promise. It's called bait and switch. 
 Time's up. 
 Thank you. 
 Actually, it's not an empty promise. 
It's really interesting, because the president used that very plan as a reason for seniors to accept his prescription drug plan. He said, if it's good enough for the congressmen and senators to have choice, seniors ought to have choice. 
What we do is we have choice. I choose Blue Cross/Blue Shield. Other senators, other congressmen choose other programs. 
But the fact is, we're going to help Americans be able to buy into it. Those that can afford it are going to buy in themselves. We're not giving this away for nothing. 
 All right. 
Senator Kerry, a new question. Let's talk about economic security. You pledged during the last debate that you would not raise taxes on those making less than $200,000 a year. But the price of everything is going up, and we all know it. Health-care costs, as you are talking about, is skyrocketing, the cost of the war. 
My question is, how can you or any president, whoever is elected next time, keep that pledge without running this country deeper into debt and passing on more of the bills that we're running up to our children? 
 I'll tell you exactly how I can do it: by reinstating what President Bush took away, which is called pay as you go. 
During the 1990s, we had pay-as-you-go rules. If you were going to pass something in the Congress, you had to show where you are going to pay for it and how. 
President Bush has taken -- he's the only president in history to do this. He's also the only president in 72 years to lose jobs -- 1. 6 million jobs lost. He's the only president to have incomes of families go down for the last three years; the only president to see exports go down; the only president to see the lowest level of business investment in our country as it is today. 
Now, I'm going to reverse that. I'm going to change that. We're going to restore the fiscal discipline we had in the 1990s. 
Every plan that I have laid out -- my health-care plan, my plan for education, my plan for kids to be able to get better college loans -- I've shown exactly how I'm going to pay for those. 
And we start -- we don't do it exclusively -- but we start by rolling back George Bush's unaffordable tax cut for the wealthiest people, people earning more than $200,000 a year, and we pass, hopefully, the McCain-Kerry Commission which identified some $60 billion that we can get. 
We shut the loophole which has American workers actually subsidizing the loss of their own job. They just passed an expansion of that loophole in the last few days: $43 billion of giveaways, including favors to the oil and gas industry and the people importing ceiling fans from China. 
I'm going to stand up and fight for the American worker. And I am going to do it in a way that's fiscally sound. I show how I pay for the health care, how we pay for the education. 
I have a manufacturing jobs credit. We pay for it by shutting that loophole overseas. We raise the student loans. I pay for it by changing the relationship with the banks. 
This president has never once vetoed one bill; the first president in a hundred years not to do that. 
 Mr. President? 
 Well, his rhetoric doesn't match his record. 
He been a senator for 20 years. He voted to increase taxes 98 times. When they tried to reduce taxes, he voted against that 127 times. He talks about being a fiscal conservative, or fiscally sound, but he voted over -- he voted 277 times to waive the budget caps, which would have cost the taxpayers $4. 2 trillion. 
He talks about PAYGO. I'll tell you what PAYGO means, when you're a senator from Massachusetts, when you're a colleague of Ted Kennedy, pay go means: You pay, and he goes ahead and spends. 
He's proposed $2. 2 trillion of new spending, and yet the so-called tax on the rich, which is also a tax on many small-business owners in America, raises $600 million by our account -- billion, $800 billion by his account. 
There is a tax gap. And guess who usually ends up filling the tax gap? The middle class. 
I propose a detailed budget, Bob. I sent up my budget man to the Congress, and he says, here's how we're going to reduce the deficit in half by five years. It requires pro-growth policies that grow our economy and fiscal sanity in the halls of Congress. 
 Let's go to a new question, Mr. President. Two minutes. And let's continue on jobs. 
You know, there are all kind of statistics out there, but I want to bring it down to an individual. 
Mr. President, what do you say to someone in this country who has lost his job to someone overseas who's being paid a fraction of what that job paid here in the United States? 
 I'd say, Bob, I've got policies to continue to grow our economy and create the jobs of the 21st century. And here's some help for you to go get an education. Here's some help for you to go to a community college. 
We've expanded trade adjustment assistance. We want to help pay for you to gain the skills necessary to fill the jobs of the 21st century. 
You know, there's a lot of talk about how to keep the economy growing. We talk about fiscal matters. But perhaps the best way to keep jobs here in America and to keep this economy growing is to make sure our education system works. 
I went to Washington to solve problems. And I saw a problem in the public education system in America. They were just shuffling too many kids through the system, year after year, grade after grade, without learning the basics. 
And so we said: Let's raise the standards. We're spending more money, but let's raise the standards and measure early and solve problems now, before it's too late. 
No, education is how to help the person who's lost a job. Education is how to make sure we've got a workforce that's productive and competitive. 
Got four more years, I've got more to do to continue to raise standards, to continue to reward teachers and school districts that are working, to emphasize math and science in the classrooms, to continue to expand Pell Grants to make sure that people have an opportunity to start their career with a college diploma. 
And so the person you talked to, I say, here's some help, here's some trade adjustment assistance money for you to go a community college in your neighborhood, a community college which is providing the skills necessary to fill the jobs of the 21st century. And that's what I would say to that person. 
 Senator Kerry? 
 I want you to notice how the president switched away from jobs and started talking about education principally. 
Let me come back in one moment to that, but I want to speak for a second, if I can, to what the president said about fiscal responsibility. 
Being lectured by the president on fiscal responsibility is a little bit like Tony Soprano talking to me about law and order in this country. 

This president has taken a $5. 6 trillion surplus and turned it into deficits as far as the eye can see. Health-care costs for the average American have gone up 64 percent; tuitions have gone up 35 percent; gasoline prices up 30 percent; Medicare premiums went up 17 percent a few days ago; prescription drugs are up 12 percent a year. 
But guess what, America? The wages of Americans have gone down. The jobs that are being created in Arizona right now are paying about $13,700 less than the jobs that we're losing. 
And the president just walks on by this problem. The fact is that he's cut job-training money. $1 billion was cut. They only added a little bit back this year because it's an election year. 
They've cut the Pell Grants and the Perkins loans to help kids be able to go to college. 
They've cut the training money. They've wound up not even extending unemployment benefits and not even extending health care to those people who are unemployed. 
I'm going to do those things, because that's what's right in America: Help workers to transition in every respect. 
 New question to you, Senator Kerry, two minutes. And it's still on jobs. You know, many experts say that a president really doesn't have much control over jobs. For example, if someone invents a machine that does the work of five people, that's progress. That's not the president's fault. 
So I ask you, is it fair to blame the administration entirely for this loss of jobs? 
 I don't blame them entirely for it. I blame the president for the things the president could do that has an impact on it. 
Outsourcing is going to happen. I've acknowledged that in union halls across the country. I've had shop stewards stand up and say, "Will you promise me you're going to stop all this outsourcing? "And I've looked them in the eye and I've said, "No, I can't do that. "
What I can promise you is that I will make the playing field as fair as possible, that I will, for instance, make certain that with respect to the tax system that you as a worker in America are not subsidizing the loss of your job. 
Today, if you're an American business, you actually get a benefit for going overseas. You get to defer your taxes. 
So if you're looking at a competitive world, you say to yourself, "Hey, I do better overseas than I do here in America. "
That's not smart. I don't want American workers subsidizing the loss of their own job. And when I'm president, we're going to shut that loophole in a nanosecond and we're going to use that money to lower corporate tax rates in America for all corporations, 5 percent. And we're going to have a manufacturing jobs credit and a job hiring credit so we actually help people be able to hire here. 
The second thing that we can do is provide a fair trade playing field. This president didn't stand up for Boeing when Airbus was violating international rules and subsidies. He discovered Boeing during the course of this campaign after I'd been talking about it for months. 
The fact is that the president had an opportunity to stand up and take on China for currency manipulation. There are companies that wanted to petition the administration. They were told: Don't even bother; we're not going to listen to it. 
The fact is that there have been markets shut to us that we haven't stood up and fought for. I'm going to fight for a fair trade playing field for the American worker. And I will fight for the American worker just as hard as I fight for my own job. That's what the American worker wants. And if we do that, we can have an impact. 
Plus, we need fiscal discipline. Restore fiscal discipline, we'll do a lot better. 
 Mr. President? 
 Whew!
Let me start with the Pell Grants. In his last litany of misstatements. He said we cut Pell Grants. We've increased Pell Grants by a million students. That's a fact. 
You know, he talks to the workers. Let me talk to the workers. 
You've got more money in your pocket as a result of the tax relief we passed and he opposed. 
If you have a child, you got a $1,000 child credit. That's money in your pocket. 
If you're married, we reduced the marriage penalty. The code ought to encourage marriage, not discourage marriage. 
We created a 10 percent bracket to help lower-income Americans. A family of four making $40,000 received about $1,700 in tax relief. 
It's your money. The way my opponent talks, he said, "We're going to spend the government's money. "No, we're spending your money. And when you have more money in your pocket, you're able to better afford things you want. 
I believe the role of government is to stand side by side with our citizens to help them realize their dreams, not tell citizens how to live their lives. 
My opponent talks about fiscal sanity. His record in the United States Senate does not match his rhetoric. 
He voted to increase taxes 98 times and to bust the budget 277 times. 
 Senator Kerry? 
 Bob, anybody can play with these votes. Everybody knows that. 
I have supported or voted for tax cuts over 600 times. I broke with my party in order to balance the budget, and Ronald Reagan signed into law the tax cut that we voted for. I voted for IRA tax cuts. I voted for small-business tax cuts. 
But you know why the Pell Grants have gone up in their numbers? Because more people qualify for them because they don't have money. 
But they're not getting the $5,100 the president promised them. They're getting less money. 
We have more people who qualify. That's not what we want. 
 Senator, no one's playing with your votes. You voted to increase taxes 98 times. When they voted -- when they proposed reducing taxes, you voted against it 126 times. 
He voted to violate the budget cap 277 times. You know, there's a main stream in American politics and you sit right on the far left bank. As a matter of fact, your record is such that Ted Kennedy, your colleague, is the conservative senator from Massachusetts. 
 Mr. President, let's get back to economic issues. But let's shift to some other questions here. 
Both of you are opposed to gay marriage. But to understand how you have come to that conclusion, I want to ask you a more basic question. Do you believe homosexuality is a choice? 
 You know, Bob, I don't know. I just don't know. I do know that we have a choice to make in America and that is to treat people with tolerance and respect and dignity. It's important that we do that. 
And I also know in a free society people, consenting adults can live the way they want to live. 
And that's to be honored. 
But as we respect someone's rights, and as we profess tolerance, we shouldn't change -- or have to change -- our basic views on the sanctity of marriage. I believe in the sanctity of marriage. I think it's very important that we protect marriage as an institution, between a man and a woman. 
I proposed a constitutional amendment. The reason I did so was because I was worried that activist judges are actually defining the definition of marriage, and the surest way to protect marriage between a man and woman is to amend the Constitution. 
It has also the benefit of allowing citizens to participate in the process. After all, when you amend the Constitution, state legislatures must participate in the ratification of the Constitution. 
I'm deeply concerned that judges are making those decisions and not the citizenry of the United States. You know, Congress passed a law called DOMA, the Defense of Marriage Act. 
My opponent was against it. It basically protected states from the action of one state to another. It also defined marriage as between a man and woman. 
But I'm concerned that that will get overturned. And if it gets overturned, then we'll end up with marriage being defined by courts, and I don't think that's in our nation's interests. 
 Senator Kerry? 
 We're all God's children, Bob. And I think if you were to talk to Dick Cheney's daughter, who is a lesbian, she would tell you that she's being who she was, she's being who she was born as. 
I think if you talk to anybody, it's not choice. I've met people who struggled with this for years, people who were in a marriage because they were living a sort of convention, and they struggled with it. 
And I've met wives who are supportive of their husbands or vice versa when they finally sort of broke out and allowed themselves to live who they were, who they felt God had made them. 
I think we have to respect that. 
The president and I share the belief that marriage is between a man and a woman. I believe that. I believe marriage is between a man and a woman. 
But I also believe that because we are the United States of America, we're a country with a great, unbelievable Constitution, with rights that we afford people, that you can't discriminate in the workplace. You can't discriminate in the rights that you afford people. 
You can't disallow someone the right to visit their partner in a hospital. You have to allow people to transfer property, which is why I'm for partnership rights and so forth. 
Now, with respect to DOMA and the marriage laws, the states have always been able to manage those laws. And they're proving today, every state, that they can manage them adequately. 
 Senator Kerry, a new question for you. 
The New York Times reports that some Catholic archbishops are telling their church members that it would be a sin to vote for a candidate like you because you support a woman's right to choose an abortion and unlimited stem-cell research. 
What is your reaction to that? 
 I respect their views. I completely respect their views. I am a Catholic. And I grew up learning how to respect those views. But I disagree with them, as do many. 
I believe that I can't legislate or transfer to another American citizen my article of faith. What is an article of faith for me is not something that I can legislate on somebody who doesn't share that article of faith. 
I believe that choice is a woman's choice. It's between a woman, God and her doctor. And that's why I support that. 
Now, I will not allow somebody to come in and change Roe v. Wade. 
The president has never said whether or not he would do that. But we know from the people he's tried to appoint to the court he wants to. 
I will not. I will defend the right of Roe v. Wade. 
Now, with respect to religion, you know, as I said, I grew up a Catholic. I was an altar boy. I know that throughout my life this has made a difference to me. 
And as President Kennedy said when he ran for president, he said, "I'm not running to be a Catholic president. I'm running to be a president who happens to be Catholic. "
My faith affects everything that I do, in truth. There's a great passage of the Bible that says, "What does it mean, my brother, to say you have faith if there are no deeds? Faith without works is dead. "
And I think that everything you do in public life has to be guided by your faith, affected by your faith, but without transferring it in any official way to other people. 
That's why I fight against poverty. That's why I fight to clean up the environment and protect this earth. 
That's why I fight for equality and justice. All of those things come out of that fundamental teaching and belief of faith. 
But I know this, that President Kennedy in his inaugural address told all of us that here on Earth, God's work must truly be our own. And that's what we have to -- I think that's the test of public service. 
 Mr. President? 
 I think it's important to promote a culture of life. I think a hospitable society is a society where every being counts and every person matters. I believe the ideal world is one in which every child is protected in law and welcomed to life. I understand there's great differences on this issue of abortion, but I believe reasonable people can come together and put good law in place that will help reduce the number of abortions. 
Take, for example, the ban on partial birth abortion. It's a brutal practice. People from both political parties came together in the halls of Congress and voted overwhelmingly to ban that practice. It made a lot of sense. My opponent, in that he's out of the mainstream, voted against that law. 
What I'm saying is, is that as we promote life and promote a culture of life, surely there are ways we can work together to reduce the number of abortions: continue to promote adoption laws -- it's a great alternative to abortion -- continue to fund and promote maternity group homes; I will continue to promote abstinence programs. 
The last debate, my opponent said his wife was involved with those programs. That's great. I appreciate that very much. All of us ought to be involved with programs that provide a viable alternative to abortion. 
 Mr. President, let's have a new question. It goes to you. And let's get back to economic issues. 
Health insurance costs have risen over 36 percent over the last four years according to The Washington Post. We're paying more. We're getting less. 
I would like to ask you: Who bears responsibility for this? Is it the government? Is it the insurance companies? Is it the lawyers? Is it the doctors? Is it the administration? 
 Gosh, I sure hope it's not the administration. 
There's a -- no, look, there's a systemic problem. Health-care costs are on the rise because the consumers are not involved in the decision-making process. Most health-care costs are covered by third parties. And therefore, the actual user of health care is not the purchaser of health care. And there's no market forces involved with health care. 
It's one of the reasons I'm a strong believer in what they call health savings accounts. These are accounts that allow somebody to buy a low-premium, high-deductible catastrophic plan and couple it with tax-free savings. Businesses can contribute, employees can contribute on a contractual basis. But this is a way to make sure people are actually involved with the decision-making process on health care. 
Secondly, I do believe the lawsuits -- I don't believe, I know -- that the lawsuits are causing health-care costs to rise in America. That's why I'm such a strong believer in medical liability reform. 
In the last debate, my opponent said those lawsuits only caused the cost to go up by 1 percent. Well, he didn't include the defensive practice of medicine that costs the federal government some $28 billion a year and costs our society between $60 billion and $100 billion a year. 
Thirdly, one of the reasons why there's still high cost in medicine is because this is -- they don't use any information technology. It's like if you looked at the -- it's the equivalent of the buggy and horse days, compared to other industries here in America. 
And so, we've got to introduce high technology into health care. We're beginning to do it. We're changing the language. We want there to be electronic medical records to cut down on error, as well as reduce cost. 
People tell me that when the health-care field is fully integrated with information technology, it'll wring some 20 percent of the cost out of the system. 
And finally, moving generic drugs to the market quicker. 
And so, those are four ways to help control the costs in health care. 
 Senator Kerry? 
 The reason health-care costs are getting higher, one of the principal reasons is that this administration has stood in the way of common-sense efforts that would have reduced the costs. Let me give you a prime example. 
In the Senate we passed the right of Americans to import drugs from Canada. But the president and his friends took it out in the House, and now you don't have that right. The president blocked you from the right to have less expensive drugs from Canada. 
We also wanted Medicare to be able to negotiate bulk purchasing. The VA does that. The VA provides lower-cost drugs to our veterans. We could have done that in Medicare. 
Medicare is paid for by the American taxpayer. Medicare belongs to you. Medicare is for seniors, who many of them are on fixed income, to lift them out of poverty. 
But rather than help you, the taxpayer, have lower cost, rather than help seniors have less expensive drugs, the president made it illegal -- illegal -- for Medicare to actually go out and bargain for lower prices. 
Result: $139 billion windfall profit to the drug companies coming out of your pockets. That's a large part of your 17 percent increase in Medicare premiums. 
When I'm president, I'm sending that back to Congress and we're going to get a real prescription drug benefit. 
Now, we also have people sicker because they don't have health insurance. So whether it's diabetes or cancer, they come to hospitals later and it costs America more. 
We got to have health care for all Americans. 
 Go ahead, Mr. President. 
 I think it's important, since he talked about the Medicare plan, has he been in the United States Senate for 20 years? He has no record on reforming of health care. No record at all. 
He introduced some 300 bills and he's passed five. 
No record of leadership. 
I came to Washington to solve problems. I was deeply concerned about seniors having to choose between prescription drugs and food. And so I led. And in 2006, our seniors will get a prescription drug coverage in Medicare. 
 Senator Kerry? Thirty seconds. 
 Once again, the president is misleading America. I've actually passed 56 individual bills that I've personally written and, in addition to that, and not always under my name, there is amendments on certain bills. 
But more importantly, with respect to the question of no record, I helped write -- I did write, I was one of the original authors of the early childhood health care and the expansion of health care that we did in the middle of the 1990s. And I'm very proud of that. 
So the president's wrong. 
 Let me direct the next question to you, Senator Kerry, and again, let's stay on health care. 
You have, as you have proposed and as the president has commented on tonight, proposed a massive plan to extend health-care coverage to children. You're also talking about the government picking up a big part of the catastrophic bills that people get at the hospital. 
And you have said that you can pay for this by rolling back the president's tax cut on the upper 2 percent. 
You heard the president say earlier tonight that it's going to cost a whole lot more money than that. 
I'd just ask you, where are you going to get the money? 
 Well, two leading national news networks have both said the president's characterization of my health-care plan is incorrect. One called it fiction. The other called it untrue. 
The fact is that my health-care plan, America, is very simple. It gives you the choice. I don't force you to do anything. It's not a government plan. The government doesn't require you to do anything. You choose your doctor. You choose your plan. 
If you don't want to take the offer of the plan that I want to put forward, you don't have do. You can keep what you have today, keep a high deductible, keep high premiums, keep a high co-pay, keep low benefits. 
But I got a better plan. And I don't think a lot of people are going to want to keep what they have today. 
Here's what I do: We take over Medicaid children from the states so that every child in America is covered. And in exchange, if the states want to -- they're not forced to, they can choose to -- they cover individuals up to 300 percent of poverty. It's their choice. 
I think they'll choose it, because it's a net plus of $5 billion to them. 
We allow you -- if you choose to, you don't have to -- but we give you broader competition to allow you to buy into the same health care plan that senators and congressmen give themselves. If it's good enough for us, it's good enough for every American. I believe that your health care is just as important as any politician in Washington, D. C. 
You want to buy into it, you can. We give you broader competition. That helps lower prices. 
In addition to that, we're going to allow people 55 to 64 to buy into Medicare early. And most importantly, we give small business a 50 percent tax credit so that after we lower the costs of health care, they also get, whether they're self-employed or a small business, a lower cost to be able to cover their employees. 
Now, what happens is when you begin to get people covered like that -- for instance in diabetes, if you diagnose diabetes early, you could save $50 billion in the health care system of America by avoiding surgery and dialysis. It works. And I'm going to offer it to America. 
 Mr. President? 
 In all due respect, I'm not so sure it's credible to quote leading news organizations about -- oh, never mind. Anyway, let me quote the Lewin report. The Lewin report is a group of folks who are not politically affiliated. They analyzed the senator's plan. It cost $1.2 trillion.
The Lewin report accurately noted that there are going to be 20 million people, over 20 million people added to government-controlled health care. It would be the largest increase in government health care ever. 
If you raise the Medicaid to 300 percent, it provides an incentive for small businesses not to provide private insurance to their employees. Why should they insure somebody when the government's going to insure it for them? 
It's estimated that 8 million people will go from private insurance to government insurance. 
We have a fundamental difference of opinion. I think government- run health will lead to poor-quality health, will lead to rationing, will lead to less choice. 
Once a health-care program ends up in a line item in the federal government budget, it leads to more controls. 
And just look at other countries that have tried to have federally controlled health care. They have poor-quality health care. 
Our health-care system is the envy of the world because we believe in making sure that the decisions are made by doctors and patients, not by officials in the nation's capital. 
 Senator? 
 The president just said that government-run health care results in poor quality. 
Now, maybe that explains why he hasn't fully funded the VA and the VA hospital is having trouble and veterans are complaining. Maybe that explains why Medicare patients are complaining about being pushed off of Medicare. He doesn't adequately fund it. 
But let me just say to America: I am not proposing a government-run program. That's not what I have. I have Blue Cross/Blue Shield. Senators and congressmen have a wide choice. Americans ought to have it too. 
 Mr. President? 
 Talk about the VA: We've increased VA funding by $22 billion in the four years since I've been president. That's twice the amount that my predecessor increased VA funding. 
Of course we're meeting our obligation to our veterans, and the veterans know that. 
We're expanding veterans' health care throughout the country. We're aligning facilities where the veterans live now. Veterans are getting very good health care under my administration, and they will continue to do so during the next four years. 
 Mr. President, the next question is to you. We all know that Social Security is running out of money, and it has to be fixed. You have proposed to fix it by letting people put some of the money collected to pay benefits into private savings accounts. But the critics are saying that's going to mean finding $1 trillion over the next 10 years to continue paying benefits as those accounts are being set up. 
So where do you get the money? Are you going to have to increase the deficit by that much over 10 years? 
 First, let me make sure that every senior listening today understands that when we're talking about reforming Social Security, that they'll still get their checks. 
I remember the 2000 campaign, people said if George W. gets elected, your check will be taken away. Well, people got their checks, and they'll continue to get their checks. 
There is a problem for our youngsters, a real problem. And if we don't act today, the problem will be valued in the trillions. And so I think we need to think differently. We'll honor our commitment to our seniors. But for our children and our grandchildren, we need to have a different strategy. 
And recognizing that, I called together a group of our fellow citizens to study the issue. It was a committee chaired by the late Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York, a Democrat. And they came up with a variety of ideas for people to look at. 
I believe that younger workers ought to be allowed to take some of their own money and put it in a personal savings account, because I understand that they need to get better rates of return than the rates of return being given in the current Social Security trust. 
And the compounding rate of interest effect will make it more likely that the Social Security system is solvent for our children and our grandchildren. I will work with Republicans and Democrats. It'll be a vital issue in my second term. It is an issue that I am willing to take on, and so I'll bring Republicans and Democrats together. 
And we're of course going to have to consider the costs. But I want to warn my fellow citizens: The cost of doing nothing, the cost of saying the current system is OK, far exceeds the costs of trying to make sure we save the system for our children. 
 Senator Kerry? 
 You just heard the president say that young people ought to be able to take money out of Social Security and put it in their own accounts. 
Now, my fellow Americans, that's an invitation to disaster. 
The CBO said very clearly that if you were to adopt the president's plan, there would be a $2 trillion hole in Social Security, because today's workers pay in to the system for today's retirees. And the CBO said -- that's the Congressional Budget Office; it's bipartisan -- they said that there would have to be a cut in benefits of 25 percent to 40 percent. 
Now, the president has never explained to America, ever, hasn't done it tonight, where does the transitional money, that $2 trillion, come from? 
He's already got $3 trillion, according to The Washington Post, of expenses that he's put on the line from his convention and the promises of this campaign, none of which are paid for. Not one of them are paid for. 
The fact is that the president is driving the largest deficits in American history. He's broken the pay-as-you-go rules. 
I have a record of fighting for fiscal responsibility. In 1985, I was one of the first Democrats -- broke with my party. We balanced the budget in the '90s. We paid down the debt for two years. 
And that's what we're going to do. We're going to protect Social Security. I will not privatize it. I will not cut the benefits. And we're going to be fiscally responsible. And we will take care of Social Security. 
 Let me just stay on Social Security with a new question for Senator Kerry, because, Senator Kerry, you have just said you will not cut benefits. 
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, says there's no way that Social Security can pay retirees what we have promised them unless we recalibrate. 
What he's suggesting, we're going to cut benefits or we're going to have to raise the retirement age. We may have to take some other reform. But if you've just said, you've promised no changes, does that mean you're just going to leave this as a problem, another problem for our children to solve? 
 Not at all. Absolutely not, Bob. This is the same thing we heard -- remember, I appeared on "Meet the Press" with Tim Russert in 1990-something. We heard the same thing. We fixed it. 
In fact, we put together a $5. 6 trillion surplus in the '90s that was for the purpose of saving Social Security. If you take the tax cut that the president of the United States has given -- President Bush gave to Americans in the top 1 percent of America -- just that tax cut that went to the top 1 percent of America would have saved Social Security until the year 2075. 
The president decided to give it to the wealthiest Americans in a tax cut. Now, Alan Greenspan, who I think has done a terrific job in monetary policy, supports the president's tax cut. I don't. I support it for the middle class, not that part of it that goes to people earning more than $200,000 a year. 
And when I roll it back and we invest in the things that I have talked about to move our economy, we're going to grow sufficiently, it would begin to cut the deficit in half, and we get back to where we were at the end of the 1990s when we balanced the budget and paid down the debt of this country. 
Now, we can do that. 
Now, if later on after a period of time we find that Social Security is in trouble, we'll pull together the top experts of the country. We'll do exactly what we did in the 1990s. And we'll make whatever adjustment is necessary. 
But the first and most important thing is to start creating jobs in America. The jobs the president is creating pay $9,000 less than the jobs that we're losing. And this is the first president in 72 years to preside over an economy in America that has lost jobs, 1. 6 million jobs. 
Eleven other presidents -- six Democrats and five Republicans -- had wars, had recessions, had great difficulties; none of them lost jobs the way this president has. 
I have a plan to put America back to work. And if we're fiscally responsible and put America back to work, we're going to fix Social Security. 
 Mr. President? 
 He forgot to tell you he voted to tax Social Security benefits more than one time. I didn't hear any plan to fix Social Security. I heard more of the same. 
He talks about middle-class tax cuts. That's exactly where the tax cuts went. Most of the tax cuts went to low- and middle-income Americans. And now the tax code is more fair. Twenty percent of the upper-income people pay about 80 percent of the taxes in America today because of how we structured the tax cuts. People listening out there know the benefits of the tax cuts we passed. If you have a child, you got tax relief. If you're married, you got tax relief. If you pay any tax at all, you got tax relief. All of which was opposed by my opponent. 
And the tax relief was important to spur consumption and investment to get us out of this recession. 
People need to remember: Six months prior to my arrival, the stock market started to go down. And it was one of the largest declines in our history. And then we had a recession and we got attacked, which cost us 1 million jobs. 
But we acted. I led the Congress. We passed tax relief. And now this economy is growing. We added 1. 9 million new jobs over the last 13 months. 
Sure, there's more work to do. But the way to make sure our economy grows is not to raise taxes on small-business owners. It's not to increase the scope of the federal government. It's to make sure we have fiscal sanity and keep taxes low. 
 Let's go to a new question, Mr. President. 
I got more e-mail this week on this question than any other question. And it is about immigration. 
I'm told that at least 8,000 people cross our borders illegally every day. Some people believe this is a security issue, as you know. Some believe it's an economic issue. Some see it as a human-rights issue. 
How do you see it? And what do we need to do about it? 
 I see it as a serious problem. I see it as a security issue, I see it as an economic issue, and I see it as a human-rights issue. 
We're increasing the border security of the United States. We've got 1,000 more Border Patrol agents on the southern border. 
We're using new equipment. We're using unmanned vehicles to spot people coming across. 
And we'll continue to do so over the next four years. It's a subject I'm very familiar with. After all, I was a border governor for a while. 
Many people are coming to this country for economic reasons. They're coming here to work. If you can make 50 cents in the heart of Mexico, for example, or make $5 here in America, $5. 15, you're going to come here if you're worth your salt, if you want to put food on the table for your families. And that's what's happening. 
And so in order to take pressure off the borders, in order to make the borders more secure, I believe there ought to be a temporary worker card that allows a willing worker and a willing employer to mate up, so long as there's not an American willing to do that job, to join up in order to be able to fulfill the employers' needs. 
That has the benefit of making sure our employers aren't breaking the law as they try to fill their workforce needs. It makes sure that the people coming across the border are humanely treated, that they're not kept in the shadows of our society, that they're able to go back and forth to see their families. See, the card, it'll have a period of time attached to it. 
It also means it takes pressure off the border. If somebody is coming here to work with a card, it means they're not going to have to sneak across the border. It means our border patrol will be more likely to be able to focus on doing their job. 
Now, it's very important for our citizens to also know that I don't believe we ought to have amnesty. I don't think we ought to reward illegal behavior. There are plenty of people standing in line to become a citizen. And we ought not to crowd these people ahead of them in line. 
If they want to become a citizen, they can stand in line, too. 
And here is where my opponent and I differ. In September 2003, he supported amnesty for illegal aliens. 
 Time's up. 
Senator? 
 Let me just answer one part of the last question quickly, and then I'll come to immigration. 
The American middle-class family isn't making it right now, Bob. And what the president said about the tax cuts has been wiped out by the increase in health care, the increase in gasoline, the increase in tuitions, the increase in prescription drugs. 
The fact is, the take-home pay of a typical American family as a share of national income is lower than it's been since 1929. And the take-home pay of the richest . 1 percent of Americans is the highest it's been since 1928. 
Under President Bush, the middle class has seen their tax burden go up and the wealthiest's tax burden has gone down. Now that's wrong. 
Now, with respect to immigration reform, the president broke his promise on immigration reform. He said he would reform it. Four years later he is now promising another plan. 
Here's what I'll do: Number one, the borders are more leaking today than they were before 9/11. The fact is, we haven't done what we need to do to toughen up our borders, and I will. 
Secondly, we need a guest-worker program, but if it's all we have, it's not going to solve the problem. 
The second thing we need is to crack down on illegal hiring. It's against the law in the United States to hire people illegally, and we ought to be enforcing that law properly. 
And thirdly, we need an earned-legalization program for people who have been here for a long time, stayed out of trouble, got a job, paid their taxes, and their kids are American. We got to start moving them toward full citizenship, out of the shadows. SCHIEFFER: Do you want to respond, Mr. President? 
 Well, to say that the borders are not as protected as they were prior to September the 11th shows he doesn't know the borders. They're much better protected today than they were when I was the governor of Texas. 
We have much more manpower and much more equipment there. 
He just doesn't understand how the borders work, evidently, to say that. That is an outrageous claim. 
And we'll continue to protect our borders. We're continuing to increase manpower and equipment. 
 Senator? 
 Four thousand people a day are coming across the border. 
The fact is that we now have people from the Middle East, allegedly, coming across the border. 
And we're not doing what we ought to do in terms of the technology. We have iris-identification technology. We have thumbprint, fingerprint technology today. We can know who the people are, that they're really the people they say they are when they cross the border. 
We could speed it up. There are huge delays. 
The fact is our borders are not as secure as they ought to be, and I'll make them secure. 
 Next question to you, Senator Kerry. 
The gap between rich and poor is growing wider. More people are dropping into poverty. Yet the minimum wage has been stuck at, what, $5. 15 an hour now for about seven years. Is it time to raise it? 
 Well, I'm glad you raised that question. 
It's long overdue time to raise the minimum wage. 
And, America, this is one of those issues that separates the president and myself. 
We have fought to try to raise the minimum wage in the last years. But the Republican leadership of the House and Senate won't even let us have a vote on it. We're not allowed to vote on it. They don't want to raise the minimum wage. The minimum wage is the lowest minimum wage value it has been in our nation in 50 years. 
If we raise the minimum wage, which I will do over several years to $7 an hour, 9. 2 million women who are trying to raise their families would earn another $3,800 a year. 
The president has denied 9. 2 million women $3,800 a year, but he doesn't hesitate to fight for $136,000 to a millionaire. 
One percent of America got $89 billion last year in a tax cut, but people working hard, playing by the rules, trying to take care of their kids, family values, that we're supposed to value so much in America -- I'm tired of politicians who talk about family values and don't value families. 
What we need to do is raise the minimum wage. We also need to hold on to equal pay. Women work for 76 cents on the dollar for the same work that men do. That's not right in America. 
And we had an initiative that we were working on to raise women's pay. They've cut it off. They've stopped it. They don't enforce these kinds of things. 
Now, I think that it's a matter of fundamental right that if we raise the minimum wage, 15 million Americans would be positively affected. We'd put money into the hands of people who work hard, who obey the rules, who play for the American dream. 
And if we did that, we'd have more consumption ability in America, which is what we need right now in order to kick our economy into gear. I will fight tooth and nail to pass the minimum wage. 
 Actually, Mitch McConnell had a minimum-wage plan that I supported that would have increased the minimum wage. 
But let me talk about what's really important for the worker you're referring to. And that's to make sure the education system works. It's to make sure we raise standards. 
Listen, the No Child Left Behind Act is really a jobs act when you think about it. The No Child Left Behind Act says, "We'll raise standards. We'll increase federal spending. But in return for extra spending, we now want people to measure -- states and local jurisdictions to measure to show us whether or not a child can read or write or add and subtract. "
You cannot solve a problem unless you diagnose the problem. And we weren't diagnosing problems. And therefore just kids were being shuffled through the school. 
And guess who would get shuffled through? Children whose parents wouldn't speak English as a first language just move through. 
Many inner-city kids just move through. We've stopped that practice now by measuring early. And when we find a problem, we spend extra money to correct it. 
I remember a lady in Houston, Texas, told me, "Reading is the new civil right," and she's right. In order to make sure people have jobs for the 21st century, we've got to get it right in the education system, and we're beginning to close a minority achievement gap now. 
You see, we'll never be able to compete in the 21st century unless we have an education system that doesn't quit on children, an education system that raises standards, an education that makes sure there's excellence in every classroom. 
 Mr. President, I want to go back to something Senator Kerry said earlier tonight and ask a follow-up of my own. He said -- and this will be a new question to you -- he said that you had never said whether you would like to overturn Roe v. Wade. So I'd ask you directly, would you like to? 
 What he's asking me is, will I have a litmus test for my judges? And the answer is, no, I will not have a litmus test. I will pick judges who will interpret the Constitution, but I'll have no litmus test. 
 Senator Kerry, you'd like to respond? 
 Is that a new question or a 30-second question? 
 That's a new question for Senator -- for President Bush. 
 Which time limit. . . 
 You have 90 seconds. 
 Thank you very much. 
Well, again, the president didn't answer the question. 
I'll answer it straight to America. I'm not going to appoint a judge to the Court who's going to undo a constitutional right, whether it's the First Amendment, or the Fifth Amendment, or some other right that's given under our courts today -- under the Constitution. And I believe that the right of choice is a constitutional right. 
So I don't intend to see it undone. 
Clearly, the president wants to leave in ambivalence or intends to undo it. 
But let me go a step further. We have a long distance yet to travel in terms of fairness in America. I don't know how you can govern in this country when you look at New York City and you see that 50 percent of the black males there are unemployed, when you see 40 percent of Hispanic children -- of black children in some cities -- dropping out of high school. 
And yet the president who talks about No Child Left Behind refused to fully fund -- by $28 billion -- that particular program so you can make a difference in the lives of those young people. 
Now right here in Arizona, that difference would have been $131 million to the state of Arizona to help its kids be able to have better education and to lift the property tax burden from its citizens. The president reneged on his promise to fund No Child Left Behind. 
He'll tell you he's raised the money, and he has. But he didn't put in what he promised, and that makes a difference in the lives of our children. 
 Yes, sir? 
 Two things. One, he clearly has a litmus test for his judges, which I disagree with. 
And secondly, only a liberal senator from Massachusetts would say that a 49 percent increase in funding for education was not enough. 
We've increased funds. But more importantly, we've reformed the system to make sure that we solve problems early, before they're too late. 
He talked about the unemployed. Absolutely we've got to make sure they get educated. 
He talked about children whose parents don't speak English as a first language? Absolutely we've got to make sure they get educated. 
And that's what the No Child Left Behind Act does. 
 Senator? 
 You don't measure it by a percentage increase. Mr. President, you measure it by whether you're getting the job done. 
Five hundred thousand kids lost after-school programs because of your budget. 
Now, that's not in my gut. That's not in my value system, and certainly not so that the wealthiest people in America can walk away with another tax cut. 
$89 billion last year to the top 1 percent of Americans, but kids lost their after-school programs. You be the judge. 
 All right, let's go to another question. And it is to Senator Kerry. 
You have two minutes, sir. 
Senator, the last debate, President Bush said he did not favor a draft. You agreed with him. But our National Guard and Reserve forces are being severely strained because many of them are being held beyond their enlistments. Some of them say that it's a back-door draft. 
Is there any relief that could be offered to these brave Americans and their families? 
If you became president, Senator Kerry, what would you do about this situation of holding National Guard and Reservists for these extended periods of time and these repeated call-ups that they're now facing? 
 Well, I think the fact that they're facing these repeated call-ups, some of them two and three deployments, and there's a stop- loss policy that prevents people from being able to get out when their time was up, is a reflection of the bad judgment this president exercised in how he has engaged in the world and deployed our forces. 
Our military is overextended. Nine out of 10 active-duty Army divisions are either in Iraq, going to Iraq or have come back from Iraq. One way or the other, they're wrapped up in it. 
Now, I've proposed adding two active-duty divisions to the armed forces of the United States -- one combat, one support. 
In addition, I'm going to double the number of Special Forces so that we can fight a more effective war on terror, with less pressure on the National Guard and Reserve. And what I would like to do is see the National Guard and Reserve be deployed differently here in our own country. There's much we can do with them with respect to homeland security. We ought to be doing that. And that would relieve an enormous amount of pressure. 
But the most important thing to relieve the pressure on all of the armed forces is frankly to run a foreign policy that recognizes that America is strongest when we are working with real alliances, when we are sharing the burdens of the world by working through our statesmanship at the highest levels and our diplomacy to bring other nations to our side. 
I've said it before, I say it again: I believe the president broke faith to the American people in the way that he took this nation to war. He said he would work through a real alliance. He said in Cincinnati we would plan carefully, we would take every precaution. Well, we didn't. And the result is our forces today are overextended. 
The fact is that he did not choose to go to war as a last result. And America now is paying, already $120 billion, up to $200 billion before we're finished and much more probably. And that is the result of this president taking his eye off of Osama bin Laden. 
 Mr. President? 
 The best way to take the pressure off our troops is to succeed in Iraq, is to train Iraqis so they can do the hard work of democracy, is to give them a chance to defend their country, which is precisely what we're doing. We'll have 125,000 troops trained by the end of this year. 
I remember going on an airplane in Bangor, Maine, to say thanks to the reservists and Guard that were headed overseas from Tennessee and North Carolina, Georgia. Some of them had been there before. 
The people I talked to their spirits were high. They didn't view their service as a back-door draft. They viewed their service as an opportunity to serve their country. 
My opponent, the senator, talks about foreign policy. 
In our first debate he proposed America pass a global test. In order to defend ourselves, we'd have to get international approval. That's one of the major differences we have about defending our country. 
I'll work with allies. I'll work with friends. We'll continue to build strong coalitions. But I will never turn over our national- security decisions to leaders of other countries. 
We'll be resolute, we'll be strong, and we'll wage a comprehensive war against the terrorists. 
 Senator? 
 I have never suggested a test where we turn over our security to any nation. In fact, I've said the opposite: I will never turn the security of the United States over to any nation. No nation will ever have a veto over us. 
But I think it makes sense, I think most Americans in their guts know, that we ought to pass a sort of truth standard. That's how you gain legitimacy with your own countrypeople, and that's how you gain legitimacy in the world. 
But I'll never fail to protect the United States of America. 
 In 1990, there was a vast coalition put together to run Saddam Hussein out of Kuwait. The international community, the international world said this is the right thing to do, but when it came time to authorize the use of force on the Senate floor, my opponent voted against the use of force. 
Apparently you can't pass any test under his vision of the world. 
 Mr. President, new question, two minutes. 
You said that if Congress would vote to extend the ban on assault weapons, that you'd sign the legislation, but you did nothing to encourage the Congress to extend it. Why not? 
 Actually, I made my intentions -- made my views clear. I did think we ought to extend the assault weapons ban, and was told the fact that the bill was never going to move, because Republicans and Democrats were against the assault weapon ban, people of both parties. I believe law-abiding citizens ought to be able to own a gun. I believe in background checks at gun shows or anywhere to make sure that guns don't get in the hands of people that shouldn't have them. 
But the best way to protect our citizens from guns is to prosecute those who commit crimes with guns. And that's why early in my administration I called the attorney general and the U. S. attorneys and said: Put together a task force all around the country to prosecute those who commit crimes with guns. And the prosecutions are up by about 68 percent -- I believe -- is the number. 
Neighborhoods are safer when we crack down on people who commit crimes with guns. 
To me, that's the best way to secure America. 
 Senator? 
 I believe it was a failure of presidential leadership not to reauthorize the assault weapons ban. 
I am a hunter. I'm a gun owner. I've been a hunter since I was a kid, 12, 13 years old. And I respect the Second Amendment and I will not tamper with the Second Amendment. 
But I'll tell you this. I'm also a former law enforcement officer. I ran one of the largest district attorney's offices in America, one of the ten largest. I put people behind bars for the rest of their life. I've broken up organized crime. I know something about prosecuting. 
And most of the law enforcement agencies in America wanted that assault weapons ban. They don't want to go into a drug bust and be facing an AK-47. 
I was hunting in Iowa last year with a sheriff from one of the counties there, and he pointed to a house in back of us, and said, "See the house over? We just did a drug bust a week earlier, and the guy we arrested had an AK-47 lying on the bed right beside him. "
Because of the president's decision today, law enforcement officers will walk into a place that will be more dangerous. Terrorists can now come into America and go to a gun show and, without even a background check, buy an assault weapon today. 
And that's what Osama bin Laden's handbook said, because we captured it in Afghanistan. It encouraged them to do it. 
So I believe America's less safe. 
If Tom DeLay or someone in the House said to me, "Sorry, we don't have the votes," I'd have said, "Then we're going to have a fight. "
And I'd have taken it out to the country and I'd have had every law enforcement officer in the country visit those congressmen. We'd have won what Bill Clinton won. 
 Let's go to a new question. For you, Senator Kerry, two minutes.
Affirmative action: Do you see a need for affirmative action programs, or have we moved far enough along that we no longer need to use race and gender as a factor in school admissions and federal and state contracts and so on? 
 No, Bob, regrettably, we have not moved far enough along. 
And I regret to say that this administration has even blocked steps that could help us move further along. I'll give you an example. 
I served on the Small Business Committee for a long time. I was chairman of it once. Now I'm the senior Democrat on it. We used to -- you know, we have a goal there for minority set-aside programs, to try to encourage ownership in the country. They don't reach those goals. They don't even fight to reach those goals. They've tried to undo them. 
The fact is that in too many parts of our country, we still have discrimination. And affirmative action is not just something that applies to people of color. Some people have a mistaken view of it in America. It also is with respect to women, it's with respect to other efforts to try to reach out and be inclusive in our country. 
I think that we have a long way to go, regrettably. If you look at what's happened -- we've made progress, I want to say that at the same time. 
During the Clinton years, as you may recall, there was a fight over affirmative action. And there were many people, like myself, who opposed quotas, who felt there were places where it was overreaching. So we had a policy called "Mend it, don't end it. "We fixed it. 
And we fixed it for a reason: because there are too many people still in this country who feel the stark resistance of racism, and so we have a distance to travel. As president, I will make certain we travel it. 
Now, let me just share something. This president is the first president ever, I think, not to meet with the NAACP. This is a president who hasn't met with the Black Congressional Caucus. This is a president who has not met with the civil rights leadership of our country. 
If a president doesn't reach out and bring people in and be inclusive, then how are we going to get over those barriers? I see that as part of my job as president, and I'll make my best effort to do it. 
 Mr. President? 
 Well, first of all, it is just not true that I haven't met with the Black Congressional Caucus. I met with the Black Congressional Caucus at the White House. 
And secondly, like my opponent, I don't agree we ought to have quotas. I agree, we shouldn't have quotas. 
But we ought to have an aggressive effort to make sure people are educated, to make sure when they get out of high school there's Pell Grants available for them, which is what we've done. We've expanded Pell Grants by a million students. 
Do you realize today in America, we spend $73 billion to help 10 million low- and middle-income families better afford college? 
That's the access I believe is necessary, is to make sure every child learns to read, write, add and subtract early, to be able to build on that education by going to college so they can start their careers with a college diploma. 
I believe the best way to help our small businesses is not only through small-business loans, which we have increased since I've been the president of the United States, but to unbundle government contracts so people have a chance to be able to bid and receive a contract to help get their business going. 
Minority ownership of businesses are up, because we created an environment for the entrepreneurial spirit to be strong. 
I believe part of a hopeful society is one in which somebody owns something. Today in America more minorities own a home than ever before. And that's hopeful, and that's positive. 
 Mr. President, let's go to a new question. 
You were asked before the invasion, or after the invasion, of Iraq if you'd checked with your dad. And I believe, I don't remember the quote exactly, but I believe you said you had checked with a higher authority. 
I would like to ask you, what part does your faith play on your policy decisions? 
First, my faith plays a lot -- a big part in my life. And that's, when I was answering that question, what I was really saying to the person was that I pray a lot. And I do. 
And my faith is a very -- it's very personal. I pray for strength. I pray for wisdom. I pray for our troops in harm's way. I pray for my family. I pray for my little girls. 
But I'm mindful in a free society that people can worship if they want to or not. You're equally an American if you choose to worship an almighty and if you choose not to. 
If you're a Christian, Jew or Muslim, you're equally an American. That's the great thing about America, is the right to worship the way you see fit. 
Prayer and religion sustain me. I receive calmness in the storms of the presidency. 
I love the fact that people pray for me and my family all around the country. Somebody asked me one time, "Well, how do you know? "I said, "I just feel it. "
Religion is an important part. I never want to impose my religion on anybody else. 
But when I make decisions, I stand on principle, and the principles are derived from who I am. 
I believe we ought to love our neighbor like we love ourself, as manifested in public policy through the faith-based initiative where we've unleashed the armies of compassion to help heal people who hurt. 
I believe that God wants everybody to be free. That's what I believe. 
And that's been part of my foreign policy. In Afghanistan, I believe that the freedom there is a gift from the Almighty. And I can't tell you how encouraged I am to see freedom on the march. 
And so my principles that I make decisions on are a part of me, and religion is a part of me. 
 Senator Kerry? 
 Well, I respect everything that the president has said and certainly respect his faith. I think it's important and I share it. I think that he just said that freedom is a gift from the Almighty. 
Everything is a gift from the Almighty. And as I measure the words of the Bible -- and we all do; different people measure different things -- the Koran, the Torah, or, you know, Native Americans who gave me a blessing the other day had their own special sense of connectedness to a higher being. And people all find their ways to express it. 
I was taught -- I went to a church school and I was taught that the two greatest commandments are: Love the Lord, your God, with all your mind, your body and your soul, and love your neighbor as yourself. And frankly, I think we have a lot more loving of our neighbor to do in this country and on this planet. 
We have a separate and unequal school system in the United States of America. There's one for the people who have, and there's one for the people who don't have. And we're struggling with that today. 
And the president and I have a difference of opinion about how we live out our sense of our faith. 
I talked about it earlier when I talked about the works and faith without works being dead. 
I think we've got a lot more work to do. And as president, I will always respect everybody's right to practice religion as they choose -- or not to practice -- because that's part of America. 
 Senator Kerry, after 9/11 -- and this is a new question for you -- it seemed to me that the country came together as I've never seen it come together since World War II. But some of that seems to have melted away. I think it's fair to say we've become pretty polarized, perhaps because of the political season. 
But if you were elected president, or whoever is elected president, will you set a priority in trying to bring the nation back together? Or what would be your attitude on that? 
 Very much so. 
Let me pay a compliment to the president, if I may. I think in those days after 9/11, I thought the president did a terrific job. And I really was moved, as well as impressed, by the speech that he gave to the Congress. 
And I think the hug Tom Daschle gave him at that moment was about as genuine a sense of there being no Democrats, no Republicans, we were all just Americans. That's where we were. 
That's not where we are today. I regret to say that the president who called himself a uniter, not a divider, is now presiding over the most divided America in the recent memory of our country. I've never seen such ideological squabbles in the Congress of the United States. I've never seen members of a party locked out of meetings the way they're locked out today. 
We have to change that. And as president, I am committed to changing that. I don't care if the idea comes from the other side or this side. I think we have to come together and work to change it. 
And I've done that. Over 20 years in the United States Senate, I've worked with John McCain, who's sitting here, I've worked with other colleagues. I've reached across the aisle. I've tried to find the common ground, because that's what makes us strong as Americans. 
And if Americans trust me with the presidency, I can pledge to you, we will have the most significant effort, openly -- not secret meetings in the White House with special interests, not ideologically driven efforts to push people aside -- but a genuine effort to try to restore America's hope and possibilities by bringing people together. 
And one of the ways we're going to do it is, I'm going to work with my friend, John McCain, to further campaign finance reform so we get these incredible amounts of money out of the system and open it up to average people, so America is really represented by the people who make up America. 
 Mr. President? 
 My biggest disappointment in Washington is how partisan the town is. I had a record of working with Republicans and Democrats as the governor of Texas, and I was hopeful I'd be able to do the same thing. 
And we made good progress early on. The No Child Left Behind Act, incredibly enough, was good work between me and my administration and people like Senator Ted Kennedy. 
And we worked together with Democrats to relieve the tax burden on the middle class and all who pay taxes in order to make sure this economy continues to grow. 
But Washington is a tough town. And the way I view it is there's a lot of entrenched special interests there, people who are, you know, on one side of the issue or another and they spend enormous sums of money and they convince different senators to taut their way or different congressmen to talk about their issue, and they dig in. 
I'll continue, in the four years, to continue to try to work to do so. 
My opponent said this is a bitterly divided time. Pretty divided in the 2000 election. So in other words, it's pretty divided during the 1990s as well. 
We're just in a period -- we've got to work to bring it -- my opponent keeps mentioning John McCain, and I'm glad he did. John McCain is for me for president because he understands I have the right view in winning the war on terror and that my plan will succeed in Iraq. And my opponent has got a plan of retreat and defeat in Iraq. 
 We've come, gentlemen, to our last question. And it occurred to me as I came to this debate tonight that the three of us share something. All three of us are surrounded by very strong women. We're all married to strong women. Each of us have two daughters that make us very proud. 
I'd like to ask each of you, what is the most important thing you've learned from these strong women? 
 To listen to them. 

To stand up straight and not scowl. 

I love the strong women around me. I can't tell you how much I love my wife and our daughters. 
I am -- you know it's really interesting. I tell the people on the campaign trail, when I asked Laura to marry me, she said, "Fine, just so long as I never have to give a speech. "I said, "OK, you've got a deal. "Fortunately, she didn't hold me to that deal. And she's out campaigning along with our girls. And she speaks English a lot better than I do. I think people understand what she's saying. 
But they see a compassionate, strong, great first lady in Laura Bush. I can't tell you how lucky I am. When I met her in the backyard at Joe and Jan O'Neill's in Midland, Texas, it was the classic backyard barbecue. O'Neill said, "Come on over. I think you'll find somebody who might interest you. "So I said all right. Bopped over there. There was only four of us there. And not only did she interest me, I guess you would say it was love at first sight. 
 Senator Kerry? 
 Well, I guess the president and you and I are three examples of lucky people who married up. 

And some would say maybe me more so than others.

But I can take it. 

Can I say, if I could just say a word about a woman that you didn't ask about, but my mom passed away a couple years ago, just before I was deciding to run. And she was in the hospital, and I went in to talk to her and tell her what I was thinking of doing. 
And she looked at me from her hospital bed and she just looked at me and she said, "Remember: integrity, integrity, integrity. "Those are the three words that she left me with. 
And my daughters and my wife are people who just are filled with that sense of what's right, what's wrong. 
They also kick me around. They keep me honest. They don't let me get away with anything. I can sometimes take myself too seriously. They surely don't let me do that. 
And I'm blessed, as I think the president is blessed, as I said last time. I've watched him with the first lady, who I admire a great deal, and his daughters. He's a great father. And I think we're both very lucky. 
 Well, gentlemen, that brings us to the closing statements. 
Senator Kerry, I believe you're first. 
 My fellow Americans, as you heard from Bob Schieffer a moment ago, America is being tested by division. More than ever, we need to be united as a country. 
And, like Franklin Roosevelt, I don't care whether an idea is a Republican idea or a Democrat idea. I just care whether it works for America and whether it's going to make us stronger. 
These are dangerous times. I believe I offer tested, strong leadership that can calm the waters of the troubled world. And I believe that we can together do things that are within the grasp of Americans. 
We can lift our schools up. We can create jobs that pay more than the jobs we're losing overseas. We can have health care for all Americans. We can further the cause of equality in our nation. 
Let me just make it clear: I will never allow any country to have a veto over our security. Just as I fought for our country as a young man, with the same passion I will fight to defend this nation that I love. 
And, with faith in God and with conviction in the mission of America, I believe that we can reach higher. I believe we can do better. 
I think the greatest possibilities of our country, our dreams and our hopes, are out there just waiting for us to grab onto them. And I ask you to embark on that journey with me. 
I ask you for your trust. I ask you for your help. I ask you to allow me the privilege of leading this great nation of ours, of helping us to be stronger here at home and to be respected again in the world and, most of all, to be safer forever. 
Thank you. Goodnight. And God bless the United States of America. 
 Mr. President? 
 In the Oval Office, there's a painting by a friend of Laura and mine named -- by Tom Lee. And it's a West Texas painting, a painting of a mountain scene. 
And he said this about it. 
He said, "Sarah and I live on the east side of the mountain. It's the sunrise side, not the sunset side. It's the side to see the day that is coming, not to see the day that is gone. "
I love the optimism in that painting, because that's how I feel about America. And we've been through a lot together during the last 3 3/4 years. We've come through a recession, a stock market decline, an attack on our country. 
And yet, because of the hard work of the American people and good policies, this economy is growing. Over the next four years, we'll make sure the economy continues to grow. 
We reformed our school system, and now there's an achievement gap in America that's beginning to close. Over the next four years, we'll continue to insist on excellence in every classroom in America so that our children have a chance to realize the great promise of America. 
Over the next four years, we'll continue to work to make sure health care is available and affordable. 
Over the next four years, we'll continue to rally the armies of compassion, to help heal the hurt that exists in some of our country's neighborhoods. 
I'm optimistic that we'll win the war on terror, but I understand it requires firm resolve and clear purpose. We must never waver in the face of this enemy that -- these ideologues of hate. 
And as we pursue the enemy wherever it exists, we'll also spread freedom and liberty. We got great faith in the ability of liberty to transform societies, to convert a hostile world to a peaceful world. 
My hope for America is a prosperous America, a hopeful America and a safer world. 
I want to thank you for listening tonight. 
I'm asking for your vote. 
God bless you. 
 Thank you, Mr. President. 
Thank you, Senator Kerry. 
Well, that brings these debates to a close, but the campaign goes on. 
I want to wish both of you the very best of luck between now and Election Day. 
That's it for us from Arizona State University in Tempe, Arizona. I'm Bob Schieffer at CBS News. 
Goodnight, everyone. 
 





  

  


  

    
      So I guess this is  more  or less now just to get  you  up to date, Johno.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      This is what, uh,
    
    
       This  is a meeting for  me. 
    
    
      um,
    
    
      Eva,
    
    
      Bhaskara, and I did.
    
    
      Did you add more stuff to it?  later?
    
    
      
    
    
      Um. Why?
    
    
      Um.
    
    
      
    
    
       I  don't know.
    
    
      There were, like, the - you know,  and all that stuff. But.
    
    
      I thought you - you said you were adding stuff but  I don't know.
    
    
      
    
    
      Uh, no. This is -
    
    
      
    
    
      Um,
    
    
      Ha! 
    
    
      Very nice.
    
    
      Um, so we thought that,
    
    
      
    
    
      We can write up
    
    
      uh,
    
    
      an element,
    
    
      and - for each of the situation
    
    
      nodes that we observed in the Bayes-net?
    
    
      So.
    
    
      What's the  situation   like at the entity that is mentioned? if we know anything about it? Is it under construction?
    
    
      Or is it
    
    
      on fire or something  happening to it? Or is it stable?
    
    
      and so forth, going all the way
    
    
      um,
    
    
      f-
    
    
      through Parking,
    
    
      Location, Hotel, Car, Restroom,
    
    
       
    
    
      Riots, Fairs, Strikes, or
    
    
      Disasters.
    
    
      So is - This is - A situation are - is all the things which can be happening right  now? 
    
    
      Or,  what  is the situation
    
    
      type?
    
    
      That's basically  just specifying the - the input for the - w- what's
    
    
      Oh,  I  see y- Why are you specifying it in X_M_L?
    
    
      Um.
    
    
      Just because it forces us to be specific about the values 
    
    
      here?
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      And, also, I mean, this is a - what the input is going to be. Right?
    
    
      So, we will, uh - 
    
    
      This is a  schema.  This is -
    
    
      Well, yeah. I just don't know if this is th- l- what the - Does - This is what Java Bayes takes? as a
    
    
      No, because I mean if we -
    
    
      Bayes-net spec?
    
    
      I mean we're  sure  gonna interface to -
    
    
      We're gonna get an X_M_L document from  somewhere. 
    
    
      Right? And that X_M_L document will say
    
    
      "We  are  able to - We  were  able to observe that w- the element,
    
    
      um,   of the Location that the  car  is  near. "
    
    
      So that's gonna be -  
    
    
      Um.
    
    
      So this is the situational context, everything in it. Is that what Situation is short for, shi- situational context?
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      So this is just,
    
    
      again, a- an X_M_L schemata which defines a set of possible, uh, permissible X_M_L
    
    
      
    
    
      structures,
    
    
      which we view as input into the Bayes-net.
    
    
      Right?
    
    
      And then we can r-  uh
    
    
      possibly run one of them uh
    
    
      transformations?
    
    
      That put it into the format that the Bayes n- or Java Bayes or whatever wants?
    
    
      Yea- Are you talking - are you talking about the - the  structure? 
    
    
      Well it -
    
    
      I mean when you  observe  a node.
    
    
      When you - when you say 
    
    
      the input to the  v- Java Bayes, 
    
    
      Um-hmm.
    
    
      it takes a certain format, right?
    
    
      Which I don't think is  this. 
    
    
      Although I don't know.
    
    
      No, it's  certainly  not this.
    
    
      Nuh. 
    
    
      So you could just - Couldn't you just run a -
    
    
       X_S_L .  Yeah.
    
    
      Yeah. 
    
    
      To convert it into the Java Bayes for- format?
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      That's -
    
    
      That's no problem, but
    
    
      I even think that, um -
    
    
      I mean,  once   - Once you have this sort of as - running as a module -
    
    
      Right? What you  want  is -
    
    
      You wanna say, "O_K, give me the posterior probabilities of the Go-there  node,
    
    
      when  this  is happening."
    
    
      Right? When the person said  this,  the car is  there,  it's  raining,  and this is happening.
    
    
      And with  this  you can specify the - what's happening in the situation, and what's happening
    
    
      with the  user. 
    
    
      So we get -
    
    
      After we are done, through the Situation we get the User Vector.
    
    
      So, this is a -
    
    
      So this is just a specification of all the possible inputs?
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
       And, 
    
    
      all the possible  outputs,   too. 
    
    
       O_K.  
    
    
      So, we have, um,
    
    
      for example, the, uh, Go-there decision node
    
    
      which has two
    
    
      elements, going-there
    
    
      and its posterior probability,
    
    
      and  not-going-there  and its  posterior   probability,
    
    
      because the output is always gonna be
    
    
      all the decision nodes and all the - the - a- all the posterior probabilities for all the values.
    
    
      And then we would just look at the, eh, Struct that we wanna look at in terms of if - if we're only asking about one of the -
    
    
      So like, if I'm just interested in the going-there node,
    
    
      I would just pull that information out of the Struct
    
    
      that gets return- that would - that Java Bayes would output?
    
    
      Um,
    
    
      pretty much, yes, but
    
    
      
    
    
      I think it's a little bit more complex.
    
    
      As, if I understand it correctly, it  always  gives you  all  the posterior probabilities for  all  the values of  all  decision nodes.
    
    
      So, when we
    
    
       input   something, 
    
    
      we always get the, uh, posterior probabilities for all of these. Right?
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      So there is no way of telling it t-
    
    
       not  to tell us about the  EVA   values.
    
    
      Yeah,  wait  I agree, that's - yeah,  use - oh, uh   Yeah, O_K.
    
    
      So - so we get this whole
    
    
       list  of - of, um,
    
    
      things, and the question is
    
    
      what to  do  with it,
    
    
      what to hand on,
    
    
      how to  interpret  it,
    
    
      in a sense.
    
    
      So y- you said if you - "I'm only interested in whether he wants to  go  there or not", then I just  look  at that  node, 
    
    
      look which one -
    
    
      Look at that Struct in the output, right?
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      Look at that Struct in the - the output, even though
    
    
      I wouldn't call it a "Struct". But.
    
    
      Well i- well, it's an X_M_L Structure that's being res- returned, right?
    
    
      Oh. Mm-hmm.
    
    
      So every part of a structure is a "Struct".
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Yeah, I just uh - I just was - abbreviated it
    
    
      to Struct in my head, and
    
    
      
    
    
      started going with that.
    
    
       That  element or object,
    
    
      I would say.
    
    
      Not a C_Struct. That's not what I was trying to k-  though  yeah.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      And, um,
    
    
      the reason is -
    
    
      why I think it's a little bit more complex or why - why we can even think about it as an interesting problem in and of itself is -
    
    
      Um.
    
    
      So.
    
    
      The, uh -
    
    
      Let's look at an  example. 
    
    
      Well, w- wouldn't we just take the structure that's outputted
    
    
      and then run another transformation on it, that would just dump the one that we wanted out?
    
    
      
    
    
      Yeah. w- We'd need to  prune. 
    
    
      Right?
    
    
      
    
    
      Throw things away.
    
    
      Well, actually, you don't even need to  do  that with X_M_L. D- Can't you just look at one specific -
    
    
       No-
    
    
      
    
    
      Yeah,  exactly.  The -  
    
    
       Xerxes 
    
    
      allows you to say, u- "Just give me the value of that, and that, and that."
    
    
      But, we don't really  know  what we're interested in  before we look at the  complete  - at - at the  overall  result.
    
    
      So the person said,
    
    
      um,
    
    
      "Where is X_?" and so,
    
    
      
    
    
       we  want to know,
    
    
      um,
    
    
      is - Does he want
    
    
      info?
    
    
      o- on this? or know the  location? 
    
    
      Or does he want to  go  there?
    
    
      Let's assume this is our - our question.
    
    
      Sure.
    
    
      Nuh? 
    
    
      So.
    
    
      Um.
    
    
       
    
    
      Do this in Perl. 
    
    
      
    
    
      So we get -
    
    
      
    
    
       O_K .
    
    
      Let's assume this is the output.
    
    
       So. 
    
    
      We should con- be able to conclude from that that -
    
    
      I mean. It's  always  gonna give us a value of
    
    
      how likely we think i- it is that he  wants  to go there and  doesn't  want to go there,
    
    
      or how likely it is that he  wants  to
    
    
      get  information. 
    
    
      But, maybe w- we should just  reverse  this to make it a  little  bit more  delicate. 
    
    
      So, does he wanna know where it  is?  or does he wanna  go  there?
    
    
      He wants to know where it is.
    
    
      
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      I - I - I tend to agree. And if it's -
    
    
      If -
    
    
      Well now, y- I mean, you could -
    
    
      And i- if there's sort of a clear winner  here, 
    
    
      and, um -
    
    
      and this is pretty, uh -
    
    
      indifferent,
    
    
       
    
    
       
    
    
      
    
    
       
    
    
      then we - then we might conclude that he actually wants to
    
    
      just know where, uh t- uh, he  does  want to go there.
    
    
      Uh, out of curiosity, is there a reason why we wouldn't
    
    
      combine
    
    
      these three nodes?
    
    
      into one smaller subnet? 
    
    
      that would just
    
    
      basically be 
    
    
      the question for - We have "where is X_?" is the question, right? That would just be Info-on or Location?
    
    
      Based upon -
    
    
      Or Go-there. A lot of people ask that, if they actually just wanna  go  there.
    
    
      People come up to you on campus and say, "Where's the library?"
    
    
      You're gonna say - y- you're gonna say, g- "Go down  that  way."
    
    
      You're not gonna say "It's - It's five hundred yards away from you" or "It's north of you", or -
    
    
      "it's located -"
    
    
      Well, I mean - But the - there's - So you just have three
    
    
      decisions for the final node, that would link thes- these three nodes in the net together.
    
    
      Um.
    
    
      I don't know whether I  understand  what you mean. But.  Again,  in  this  -
    
    
      Given this input, we, also in some situations, may wanna
    
    
      postulate an opinion whether
    
    
      that person wants to go there  now 
    
    
      the  nicest  way, use a  cab,  or so s-
    
    
      wants to know it - wants to know where it is because he wants something  fixed  there, because he wants to
    
    
      visit t- it or whatever.
    
    
      So, it - n- I mean - a-  All  I'm saying is,
    
    
      whatever our input  is,  we're always gonna get the full
    
    
      output.
    
    
      And some -
    
    
       some  things
    
    
      will always be sort of
    
    
      too - not significant enough.
    
    
      Wha-
    
    
      Or i- or i- it'll be tight. You won't - it'll be hard to decide. But I mean, I guess - I guess the thing is,
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      uh,
    
    
      this is another, smaller, case of reasoning in the case of an  uncertainty,  which makes me think Bayes-net should be
    
    
      the way to  solve 
    
    
      these things. So if you had - If for every construction, right?
    
    
      Oh!
    
    
      you could say, "Well, there - Here's the Where-Is construction."
    
    
      And for the Where-Is construction, we know we need to l- look at this node,
    
    
      
    
    
      that merges these three things together
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      as for th- to decide the response. And since we have a finite number of constructions that we can deal with, we could have a finite number of nodes.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      Say, if we had to y- deal with arbitrary language, it wouldn't make any sense to do that, because
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      there'd be no way to generate the nodes for every possible sentence.
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      But since we can only deal with a finite amount of stuff - 
    
    
      So, basically, the idea is to f-
    
    
      to feed the output of that
    
    
      
    
    
      belief-net into another belief-net.
    
    
      Yeah, so basically take these three things and then put  them   into another belief-net.
    
    
      But, why - why - why only those  three?  Why not the whol-
    
    
      Well, I mean, d- For the Where-Is question.
    
    
      So we'd have a node for the Where-Is question.
    
    
      Yeah. But we believe that all the decision nodes are - can be relevant for the Where-Is,
    
    
      and the Where - How-do-I-get-to or the Tell-me-something-about.
    
    
      
    
    
      Is food not allowed in here? 
    
    
      You can come in if you want.
    
    
      Yes, it  is  allowed.
    
    
      
    
    
      As long as y- you're not wearing your h- your h-  headphones. 
    
    
      Alright. Just a second. I'll be back.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
       
    
    
      Well, I do- I - See, I don't know if this is a  good idea or not. I'm just throwing it out.
    
    
       
    
    
      
    
    
       
    
    
      But uh, it seems like we could have - I mea- or uh we could put all of the- all of the r- information that could also be relevant 
    
    
      into the Where-Is node answer
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      node
    
    
      thing
    
    
      stuff.
    
    
      And uh -
    
    
      
    
    
       O_K.
    
    
      I mean -
    
    
      
    
    
      Let's not forget we're gonna get some very strong  input from  these sub- dis- from these  discourse  things, right?
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      So.
    
    
      "Tell me the location of X_."
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
       Nuh?  
    
    
      Or "Where is X_ located
    
    
      
    
    
      We u-
    
    
      at?" Nuh? 
    
    
      Yeah, I know, but the Bayes-net would be able to - The weights on the -
    
    
      on the nodes in the Bayes-net would be able to do all that, wouldn't it?
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      Here's a k-
    
    
      
    
    
      Oh! 
    
    
      Oh, I'll wait until you're  plugged in.
    
    
      Oh,  don't  sit there. Sit  here. 
    
    
      You know how you don't like  that  one. It's O_K.
    
    
       Oh, do I not? 
    
    
       That's  the  weird  one.
    
    
      That's the one that's painful. That hurts. It hurts  so  bad.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      I'm h- I'm happy that they're recording that.
    
    
      That headphone. The headphone  that you have to put on backwards, with the little - little thing - and the little - little foam block on it?
    
    
      
    
    
      It's a painful, painful microphone.
    
    
      I think it's th- called "the Crown". 
    
    
      
    
    
       The crown? 
    
    
      What?
    
    
      Yeah, versus "the Sony".
    
    
      
    
    
      The Crown?
    
    
      Is that the actual name?
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      The manufacturer.
    
    
      I don't see a manufacturer on it.
    
    
      You w-
    
    
      Oh, wait, here it is. h-  This  thingy.
    
    
      Yeah, it's "The Crown".
    
    
      The crown of pain!
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      Yes.
    
    
      You're on-line?
    
    
      Are you - are your mike o- Is your mike on? O_K.
    
    
      Indeed.
    
    
      So you've been working with these guys? You know what's going on?
    
    
      Yes, I have.
    
    
      
    
    
      And, I do.
    
    
      Yeah, alright. s- So where are we?
    
    
      Excellent! 
    
    
      We're  discussing  this.
    
    
      I don't think it can handle French, but anyway.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      So.
    
    
      Assume we have  something  coming in. A person says, "Where is X_?", and we get a certain - We have a Situation vector and a User vector and  everything  is  fine? 
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      An- an- and - and our - and our -
    
    
      Did you just sti- Did you just stick the m- the - the - the  microphone  actually in the  tea? 
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      No. 
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      And, um,
    
    
      
    
    
      I'm not drinking tea. What are you talking about?
    
    
      Oh, yeah. Sorry.
    
    
      let's just assume our Bayes-net just has  three  decision nodes for the time being.
    
    
      These three, he wants to know something  about  it, he wants to know  where  it  is,  he wants to go there.
    
    
      
    
    
      In terms of, these would be wha- how we would answer the question Where-Is, right?
    
    
      We u-
    
    
      
    
    
      This is - i- That's what you s- it  seemed  like, explained it to me earlier w-
    
    
      We - we're - we wanna know how to answer the question "Where is X_?"
    
    
      Yeah, but, mmm.
    
    
      
    
    
      Yeah.  
    
    
      No, I can - I can do the Timing node in here,  too,  and say "O_K."
    
    
      Well, yeah, but in the s- uh, let's just deal with the s- the  simple  case of we're not worrying about timing or anything.
    
    
      We just want to know how we should answer "Where is X_?"
    
    
      
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      And, um,
    
    
      O_K, and,
    
    
      Go-there has two values, right?, Go-there and  not-Go-there.  Let's assume those are the posterior probabilities of  that. 
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      Info-on has True or False and Location. So, he wants to know something about it, and he wants to know something - he wants to know Where-it-is,
    
    
      
    
    
      Excuse me. 
    
    
      has  these  values.
    
    
      
    
    
      And, um,
    
    
      Oh,  I  see why we can't do that.
    
    
      And, um, in  this  case we would probably all agree that
    
    
      
    
    
      he  wants  to  go  there. Our belief-net thinks he wants to go there, right? In the, uh, whatever, if we have something like
    
    
      Yeah. 
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      this here,
    
    
      and
    
    
      this like  that  and maybe here also some -
    
    
      You should probably 
    
    
      make them out of -  Yeah.
    
    
      Well, it-
    
    
      something like  that, 
    
    
      then we would guess, "Aha! He,  our  belief-net, 
    
    
      
    
    
      has s- stronger beliefs that he wants to know where it is, than actually wants to go  there."
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      Right?
    
    
      That it - Doesn't this assume, though, that they're evenly weighted?
    
    
      True.
    
    
      Like -
    
    
      I guess they  are  evenly weighted.
    
    
      The different decision nodes, you mean?
    
    
      Yeah, the Go-there, the Info-on, and the Location?
    
    
      Well, d-  yeah,  this is making the assumption.
    
    
      Yes.
    
    
      Like -
    
    
      What do you  mean  by "differently weighted"? They don't feed into anything  really   anymore. 
    
    
      Or I jus-
    
    
      But I mean, why do we -
    
    
       
    
    
      Le-
    
    
      If we trusted the Go-there node more th- much more than we trusted the  other  ones, then we would conclude, even in this situation, that he wanted to go there.
    
    
      So, in that sense, we weight them equally
    
    
      O_K. Makes sense. Yeah.
    
    
      right now.
    
    
      So the- But I guess the- k- the question -
    
    
      But -
    
    
      that I was as- er- wondering or maybe Robert was proposing to me
    
    
      is -
    
    
      How do we d- make the decision on - as to - which one to listen to?
    
    
      Yeah, so, the final d- decision is the combination of these three. So again, it's - it's some kind of, uh -
    
    
      Bayes-net. 
    
    
      Yeah, sure.
    
    
      
    
    
      O_K so, then, the question i- So then my question is t- to you then, would be -
    
    
      
    
    
      So is the only r- reason we can  make  all these smaller Bayes-nets, because we know we can only deal with a finite set of constructions?
    
    
      Cuz oth- If we're just taking arbitrary language in, we couldn't have a node for every possible question, you know?
    
    
        
    
    
       
    
    
       
    
    
      
    
    
      A decision node for every possible question, you mean?
    
    
      
    
    
       
    
    
      Well, I - like, in the case of - Yeah.
    
    
      In the ca- Any piece of language, we wouldn't be able to answer it with this system, b- if we just h-
    
    
      Cuz we wouldn't have the correct node. Basically, w- what you're s- proposing is a n- Where-Is node, right?
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      And - and if we - And if someone - says, you know, uh, something in Mandarin
    
    
      So is -
    
    
       
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      to the system, we'd- wouldn't know which node to look at to answer that question, right?
    
    
      
    
    
       
    
    
      
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Mmm?
    
    
      So, but - but if we have a finite - What?
    
    
      I don't see your point. What - what - what  I  am thinking, or what
    
    
      we're about to propose here is
    
    
      we're always gonna get the whole list of
    
    
      values and their posterior probabilities.
    
    
      And now we need an expert system or belief-net or something that  interprets  that,
    
    
      that looks at all the
    
    
      values and says,
    
    
      "The winner is
    
    
      Timing. Now, go there."
    
    
      
    
    
      "Uh, go there, Timing, now."
    
    
      
    
    
      Or, "The winner is Info-on,
    
    
      Function-Off."
    
    
      So, he wants to know  something about it, and what it does.
    
    
       Nuh?  
    
    
      Uh, regardless of - of - of the input. Wh- Regardle-
    
    
      Yeah, but-
    
    
      But how does the expert - but how does the expert system
    
    
      know - how- who- which one to declare the winner, if it doesn't know the question it is, and how that question should be answered?
    
    
      Based on the k- what the  question   was,  so what the discourse, the ontology, the situation and the user model gave us, we came up with these values for these decisions.
    
    
      Yeah I know. But how do we weight what we get out?
    
    
      As, which one i- Which ones are important?
    
    
      So my i- So, if we were to it with a Bayes-net, we'd have to have a node -
    
    
      
    
    
      for every question that we knew how to deal with,
    
    
      that would take  all   of the inputs and weight them appropriately for that question.
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      Does that make sense?
    
    
      Yay, nay?
    
    
      Um, I mean, are you saying that, what happens if you try to scale this up to the situation, or are we just dealing with arbitrary language?
    
    
      We -
    
    
      Is that your point?
    
    
      Well, no. I - I guess my question is,
    
    
      Is the reason that we can make a node f- or - O_K. So, lemme
    
    
      see if I'm confused. Are we going to make a node for every question? Does that make sense? - Or not. 
    
    
      For every question? Like -
    
    
      Every construction.
    
    
      Hmm. 
    
    
      I don't - Not  necessarily,  I would think. I mean, it's not based on constructions, it's based on things like, uh, there's gonna be a node for Go-there or not, and there's gonna be a node for Enter, View, Approach.
    
    
      Wel-
    
    
      W- O_K.
    
    
      So, someone asked a question.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      How do we decide
    
    
      how to answer it?
    
    
      
    
    
       
    
    
      Well, look at -
    
    
      
    
    
      look -
    
    
      Face yourself with this pr- question. You get this -
    
    
      You'll have - y- This is what you get.
    
    
      And now you have to make a decision. What do we think?
    
    
      What does this tell us?
    
    
       
    
    
      And  not  knowing what was asked, and what happened, and whether the person  was  a tourist or a  local,  because all of these factors have presumably already gone into making these
    
    
      posterior probabilities.
    
    
      Yeah. 
    
    
      What - what we need is a - just a mechanism that says,
    
    
      "Aha!
    
    
      There is -"
    
    
      I just don't think a "winner-take-all" type of thing is the -
    
    
      I mean, in general, like, we won't just have those three, right? We'll have, uh, like, many, many nodes.
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      So we have to, like - So that it's no longer possible to just look at the nodes themselves and figure out what the person is trying to say.
    
    
      Because there are  interdependencies,  right?
    
    
      The uh -
    
    
      Uh, no. So if - if
    
    
      for example, the  Go-there  posterior possibility is  so  high, um,
    
    
      uh, w- if it's - if it has reached -  reached  a certain height, then
    
    
      
    
    
       
    
    
      all of this becomes irrelevant. So. If - even if - if the function or the history or something is
    
    
      scoring pretty good on the  true  node,  true  value -
    
    
      Wel-
    
    
      
    
    
      I don't know about that, cuz that would suggest that - I mean -
    
    
      He wants to go there  and  know something about it?
    
    
      Do they have to be mutual-
    
    
      Yeah. Do they have to be mutually exclusive?
    
    
      I think to  some  extent they  are. 
    
    
      Or maybe they're  not. 
    
    
      Cuz I, uh - The way you describe what they meant, they weren't mutu- uh, they didn't seem mutually exclusive to me.
    
    
      Well, if he  doesn't  want to  go  there,
    
    
      even if the  Enter 
    
    
      posterior proba- So.
    
    
      Wel- 
    
    
      Go-there is No.
    
    
       Enter  is High, and  Info-on  is High.
    
    
      Well, yeah, just out of the other three, though, that you had in the -
    
    
      Hmm?
    
    
      those three nodes. The- d- They didn't seem like they were mutually exclusive.
    
    
      No, there's - No. But -
    
    
      It's through the -
    
    
      So th- s- so, yeah, but some - So, some things would drop out, and some things would still be important.
    
    
       
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      But I guess what's confusing me is, if we have a Bayes-net to deal w- another Bayes-net to deal with this stuff,
    
    
       
    
    
       
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      you know,
    
    
      
    
    
      uh,
    
    
      is the only reason - O_K, so,
    
    
      I guess,
    
    
      if we have a Ba- another Bayes-net to deal with this stuff, the only r- reason 
    
    
      we can design it is cuz we know
    
    
      what each question is asking?
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      I think that's true.
    
    
      And then, so, the only reason - way we would know what question he's asking is based upon - Oh, so if - Let's say I had a construction parser, and I plug this in, I would know what each construction - the communicative
    
    
      intent of the construction was
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      and so then I would know how to weight the nodes appropriately, in response.
    
    
      So no matter what they said, if I could map it onto a Where-Is construction,
    
    
      Ge-
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      I could say, "ah!
    
    
      well the- the intent, here, was Where-Is",
    
    
      O_K, right.
    
    
      and I could look at those.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Yes, I mean. Sure. You  do  need to know - I mean, to have that kind of information.
    
    
      Hmm.
    
    
      Yeah, I'm also agreeing that  a simple
    
    
      pru- 
    
    
      Take the ones where we  have  a clear winner.
    
    
      Forget about the ones where it's all sort of
    
    
      middle ground.
    
    
      Prune those out and just hand over the ones where we have a  winner.  
    
    
      Yeah, because that would be the  easiest   way.
    
    
      We just compose as an output an X_M_L mes-  message that says.
    
    
      "Go there  now."
    
    
      "Enter
    
    
      historical information."
    
    
      And not care whether that's consistent with anything.
    
    
      Right?
    
    
      
    
    
      But in  this  case if we say, " definitely  he  doesn't  want to go there. He just wants to know
    
    
       where  it is."
    
    
      or let's call this - this "Look-At-H-" 
    
    
      He wants to know something about the history of. So he said,
    
    
      "Tell me something about the history of that."
    
    
      Now, the e- But for some reason the Endpoint-Approach
    
    
      gets a really high score,  too.
    
    
      We can't expect this to be sort of at O_ point 
    
    
      three, three, three, O_ point, three, three, three, O_ point, three, three, three. Right? 
    
    
      Somebody needs to  zap  that.
    
    
      You know?
    
    
      Or
    
    
      know -
    
    
      There needs to be  some  knowledge that -
    
    
      We -
    
    
      Yeah, but, the Bayes-net that would merge -
    
    
       
    
    
       
    
    
      I  just   realized that I had my hand in between my mouth and my micr- er, my- and my microphone. 
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
       So  then,
    
    
      the Bayes-net that would merge
    
    
      there, that would make the decision between Go-there, Info-on, and Location,
    
    
      would have a node to tell you which one of those three you wanted, and based upon that node, then you would  look  at the other stuff.
    
    
      
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      I mean, it- i-
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      Does  that  make sense?
    
    
      Yep. It's sort of one of those, that's - It's more like a decision tree,
    
    
      if - if you want.
    
    
      You first look o- at the  lowball  ones, and then -
    
    
      Yeah, i-
    
    
      Yeah, I didn't intend to say that every possible - O_K.
    
    
      There was  a  confusion there, k- I didn't intend to say every possible thing should go into the Bayes-net, because some of the things aren't relevant in the Bayes-net
    
    
      for a specific question.
    
    
      
    
    
      Like the  Endpoint 
    
    
      is not necessarily relevant in the Bayes-net for  Where-Is  until after you've decided whether you wanna  go  there or not.
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      
    
    
      Show us the way, Bhaskara.
    
    
      I guess the other thing is that um, yeah. I mean, when you're asked a specific question and you don't even -
    
    
      Like, if you're asked a Where-Is question, you may not even look - like,  ask  for the posterior probability of the, uh, E_V_A node, right?
    
    
      Cuz, that's what - I mean, in the Bayes-net you always ask for the posterior probability of a specific node. So, I mean,
    
    
      you may not even bother to compute things you don't need.
    
    
      Um.
    
    
      Aren't we  always  computing  all? 
    
    
      No.
    
    
      You can compute, uh, the posterior probability of one subset of the nodes, given
    
    
      some other nodes, but
    
    
      totally ignore some other nodes, also.
    
    
      Basically, things you ignore get marginalized over.
    
    
      Yeah, but that's - that's just shifting the problem.
    
    
      Then you would have to make a decision, "O_K, if it's a Where-Is question, which
    
    
      Yeah. So you have to make -
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      decision nodes do I query?"
    
    
      Yes.
    
    
       That's un-  
    
    
      But I would think that's what you want to do. Right?
    
    
      Mmm. 
    
    
      Well, eventually, you still have to pick out which ones you look at. So it's pretty much the same problem, isn't it?
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Yeah - it's - it's - it's apples and oranges. Nuh?
    
    
      
    
    
      I mean, maybe it does make a difference in terms of performance,
    
    
       computational  time. So either you
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      always have it compute  all  the posterior possibilities for  all  the values for  all  nodes, and then prune
    
    
      Mmm.
    
    
      the ones you think that are
    
    
      irrelevant,
    
    
      or you just make a p-
    
    
       
    
    
      a  priori 
    
    
      estimate of what you think might be relevant and query those.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      So basically, you'd have a decision tree  query,  Go-there.
    
    
      
    
    
      If k- if that's false, query this one. If that's true, query that one. And just basically do a binary search through the - ? 
    
    
      I don't know if it would necessarily be that, uh, complicated. But, uh -
    
    
      I mean, it w- 
    
    
      Well, in the case of Go-there, it  would  be. In the case - Cuz if you needed an- If y- If Go-there was  true,  you'd wanna know what endpoint
    
    
      was. And if it was  false,  you'd wanna d- look at
    
    
      either Lo-  Income  Info-on or History.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      That's true, I guess. Yeah,  so, in a way you  would  have that.
    
    
      Also, I'm somewhat boggled by that Hugin software.
    
    
      O_K, why's that?
    
    
      I can't figure out how to get the
    
    
      probabilities into it.
    
    
      Like, I'd look at -
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      It's somewha- It's boggling me.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      Alright.
    
    
      Well, hopefully it's  fixable.
    
    
      Ju-
    
    
       
    
    
      Oh yeah, yeah. I d- I just think I haven't
    
    
       It's - there's a - 
    
    
       
    
    
      figured out what - the terms in Hugin mean, versus what Java Bayes terms are.
    
    
       
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      
    
    
      Um, by the way, are - Do we know whether Jerry and Nancy  are  coming? Or - ? 
    
    
      So we can figure this out.
    
    
      They should come when they're  done  their  stuff,  basically, whenever that is.
    
    
      So.
    
    
      What d- what do they need to do left? 
    
    
      Um,
    
    
      I guess,
    
    
      Jerry needs to enter marks,  but I don't know if he's gonna do that now or later.
    
    
      But, uh, if he's gonna enter marks, it's gonna take him awhile, I guess, and he won't be here.
    
    
      And what's Nancy doing?
    
    
      Nancy? Um, she was sorta finishing up the, uh,
    
    
      calculation of marks and assigning of grades, but I don't know if she should be here.
    
    
      Well - or, she should be free after that, so -
    
    
      assuming she's coming to this meeting.
    
    
      I don't know if she knows about it.
    
    
      She's on the  email  list, right?
    
    
      Is she? O_K.
    
    
      Mm-hmm. 
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      Because 
    
    
      
    
    
      basically, what -
    
    
      where we  also  have decided, prior to
    
    
      this meeting is that
    
    
      we would have a  rerun  of the  three  of us sitting together 
    
    
      
    
    
       
    
    
      
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      sometime  this week  again 
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      and finish up the, uh, values
    
    
      of
    
    
      this.
    
    
      So we have,
    
    
      
    
    
      uh -
    
    
      Believe it or not, we have  all  the  bottom  ones here. 
    
    
      
    
    
      Well, I -
    
    
      You added a bunch of  nodes, for - ? 
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      We - we - we have - Actually what we have is  this  line.
    
    
      
    
    
      Uh, what do the, uh,
    
    
      Right?
    
    
      structures
    
    
      Hmm?
    
    
      do? So the - the - the -
    
    
      For instance, this Location node's got two inputs,
    
    
      that one you -
    
    
       Four  inputs.
    
    
      Hmm.
    
    
      Four. 
    
    
      Those are - The bottom things are inputs, also.
    
    
       Oh,  I  see.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      
    
    
      O_K, that was-
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      
    
    
      That makes a lot more sense to me now.
    
    
      Yep. 
    
    
      Cuz I thought it was like, that
    
    
      one in
    
    
      Stuart's book about,
    
    
      you know, the -
    
    
      Alarm in the dog?
    
    
      U- Yeah.
    
    
      Yeah. 
    
    
      Or the earthquake and the alarm.
    
    
      
    
    
      Sorry. Yeah, I'm confusing  two.  
    
    
      Yeah, there's a dog one, too, but that's in Java Bayes, isn't it?
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      Maybe.
    
    
      But there's something about
    
    
      bowel problems or something with the dog.
    
    
       
    
    
      Yeah. 
    
    
      And we have all the
    
    
      
    
    
      top ones,
    
    
      all the ones to which  no  arrows are pointing. 
    
    
      What we're missing are the -
    
    
      these, where arrows are pointing, where we're combining
    
    
      top ones.
    
    
      So, we have to come up with values for this, and
    
    
      this, this, this, and so forth. 
    
    
      And maybe
    
    
      just fiddle around with it a little bit more. 
    
    
      And, um.
    
    
      And then it's just, uh,
    
    
      edges,
    
    
      many of
    
    
      edges. 
    
    
      And, um, we  won't   meet next Monday.
    
    
      So.
    
    
      Cuz of Memorial Day?
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      We'll meet next Tuesday, I guess.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      When's Jerry leaving for -
    
    
      Italia? 
    
    
      On - on  Friday.  
    
    
      Which Friday?
    
    
      This -  this  Friday.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      Oh.  This  Friday?
    
    
      Ugh. 
    
    
       This  Friday.
    
    
      As in, four days?
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      Or, three days?
    
    
      Is he - How long is he gone for?
    
    
      Two weeks.
    
    
      Italy, huh? 
    
    
      What's, uh - what's there?
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      Well, it's a country.
    
    
      Buildings.
    
    
      People.
    
    
      But it's not a conference or anything. He's just visiting.
    
    
      Pasta.
    
    
      Hmm?
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      Just visiting.
    
    
      Vacation.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      It's a pretty nice place,
    
    
      
    
    
      in my brief, uh, encounter with it.
    
    
      Do you guys - Oh, yeah. So.  Part  of what we actually  want  to do is sort of schedule out what we want to  surprise  him with when - when he comes  back. 
    
    
      Um, so -
    
    
      Oh, I think we should disappoint him.
    
    
      Yeah? You - or have a finished  construction   parser and a working belief-net, and uh -
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
       That  wouldn't be  disappointing.   
    
    
      I think w- we should do absolutely no work
    
    
      
    
    
      for the two weeks that he's gone.
    
    
      Well, that's actually what  I  had planned,  personally.  I had - I - I had sort of scheduled out in my mind that  you  guys do a  lot  of work, and  I  do  nothing. 
    
    
      
    
    
      And then, I sort of -
    
    
      Oh, yeah, that sounds good, too.
    
    
      sort of bask in - in your glory.
    
    
      
    
    
      But, uh, i- do you guys have any vacation plans, because I  myself  am going to be,
    
    
      um,
    
    
      gone, but
    
    
      this is actually  not   really important. Just this  weekend  we're going camping.
    
    
      Yeah, I'm wanna be this - gone this weekend, too. 
    
    
      Ah. 
    
    
      But we're  all  going to be here on  Tuesday  again?
    
    
      Looks like it?
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      O_K, then. Let's meet - meet again next Tuesday.
    
    
      And, um,
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      finish up this Bayes-net.
    
    
      And once we have  finished  it,
    
    
      I guess we can,
    
    
      um -
    
    
      and that's going to be more just you and  me, 
    
    
      because Bhaskara is doing probabilistic,
    
    
      recursive,
    
    
      structured,
    
    
      object-oriented,
    
    
      
    
    
      uh,
    
    
      Killing machines! 
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
       reasoning  machines.
    
    
      Yes.
    
    
      And, um -
    
    
      Killing, reasoning. What's the difference?
    
    
      Wait. So you're saying, next Tuesday, is it the whole group meeting, or just
    
    
      Uh.
    
    
      us three working on it, or - or - ? 
    
    
      The whole group.
    
    
      And we present our results,
    
    
      our  final, 
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
       definite  -
    
    
      So, when you were saying we  need to do a re-run
    
    
       
    
    
      of, like -
    
    
       
    
    
      h- What?
    
    
      What - Like, just working out the rest of the - 
    
    
      
    
    
      Yeah. We should do this th- the upcoming days.
    
    
       This  week?
    
    
      So,  this  week, yeah.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      When you say, "the whole group", you mean 
    
    
      the four of us, and Keith?
    
    
      
    
    
      And,  Ami  might. 
    
    
      Ami might be here, and it's possible that Nancy'll be here?
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      So,
    
    
      yeah.
    
    
      Because, th- you know,
    
    
      once we have the belief-net done -
    
    
      You're just gonna have to
    
    
      explain it to me, then, on Tuesday, how it's all gonna work out.
    
    
       You  know.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
       We  will.
    
    
      O_K. Because then, once we have it sort of up and running, then we can  start   you know,
    
    
      defining the interfaces and then feed stuff into it and get stuff out of it, and then
    
    
      hook it up to some
    
    
      fake construction
    
    
      parser and -
    
    
      That you will have in about
    
    
      nine months or so. Yeah.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      
    
    
      And, um,
    
    
      The first bad version'll be done in nine months.
    
    
      Yeah, I can worry about the ontology interface and you can - Keith can worry about the discourse. I mean, this is pretty - Um, I mean, I - I - I hope everybody uh  knows  that
    
    
      these are just going to be uh  dummy  values, right?
    
    
      Which - 
    
    
      where the -
    
    
      Which ones?
    
    
      S- so - so if the  endpoint  - if the  Go-there  is Yes and No, then Go-there- discourse  will just be fifty-fifty.
    
    
      Right?
    
    
      Um, what do you mean?  If  the Go-there says No, then the Go-there is -
    
    
      I don't get it.
    
    
      I don't u- understand.
    
    
      Um.
    
    
      Like, the Go-there depends on all those four things.
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      But, what are the values of the Go-there- discourse? 
    
    
      Well, it depends on the situation. If the discourse is  strongly  indicating that -
    
    
      Yeah, but, uh, we  have  no discourse input.
    
    
      Oh,  I  see. The d- See, uh, specifically in our situation, D_ and O_ are gonna be, uh - Yeah. Sure. So, whatever.
    
    
      So, so far we have -
    
    
      Is that what the  Keith  node is?
    
    
       
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      O_K. And you're taking it out?  for now? Or - ? 
    
    
      Well, this is
    
    
      D_ -
    
    
      O_K, this, I can - I can get it in here.
    
    
      All the  D_ 's are -
    
    
      I can get it in here, so th- We have the, uh,
    
    
      um,
    
    
      
    
    
       
    
    
       sk-  let's - let's call it "Keith-Johno
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      node".
    
    
      Johno? 
    
    
      There is
    
    
      an H_ 
    
    
      somewhere  printed .
    
    
       There  you go.
    
    
      Yeah. People have the same problem with my name.
    
    
      Yeah. 
    
    
      Oops.  
    
    
      
    
    
      And, um,
    
    
      
    
    
      Does th- th- does the H_ go b-  before  the A_ or  after  the A_? 
    
    
       Oh, in  my  name?  Before  the A_.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      O_K,  good.  
    
    
      Cuz you kn- When you said people have the same  problem,  I thought - Cuz  my  H_ goes  after  the uh e- e- e- the v-
    
    
      People have the inverse problem with my name.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      I always have to  check, 
    
    
      every time y- I send you an email, 
    
    
      a past email of  yours,   to make sure I'm spelling your name correctly.
    
    
      
    
    
      Yeah. 
    
    
      That's good.
    
    
      I  worry  about you.
    
    
      
    
    
      I appreciate that.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      But, when you  abbreviate  yourself as the   "Basman"  , you don't use  any  H_'s.
    
    
      
    
    
      "Basman"?  Yeah, it's because of the chessplayer named Michael Basman, who is my hero.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
       You're  a  geek. 
    
    
      
    
    
       It's  O_ K.  I- 
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      How do you pronou-
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      How do you pronounce  your  name?
    
    
       Eva.  
    
    
      Eva? 
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Not  Eva?  
    
    
      What if I were - What if I were to call you  Eva?  
    
    
      I'd  probably  still respond to it.
    
    
       
    
    
      I've had people call me  Eva,   but I don't know.
    
    
      No, not just  Eva,    Eva.   Like if I u-
    
    
      
    
    
      take the  V_  and s- pronounce it like it was a  German   V_ ?
    
    
      Which is F_.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Um, no  idea  then.
    
    
      Voiced.
    
    
      What?
    
    
      It sounds like an F_. There's also an F_ in German, which is why I -
    
    
      I -
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      Well, it's just the difference between voiced and unvoiced.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      
    
    
      As  long  as that's O_ K.  I mean, I might slip out and say it accidentally. That's all I'm saying.
    
    
      Um.
    
    
      That's  fine.  
    
    
      Yeah. It doesn't matter what those nodes are, anyway, because we'll just make the weights "zero" for now.
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      We'll make them zero for now,
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      because it - who - who knows what they come up with,
    
    
      what's gonna come in there.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      And, um,
    
    
      then
    
    
      should we start on Thursday?
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      And not meet tomorrow?
    
    
      Sure.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      I'll send an email,
    
    
      make a time suggestion.
    
    
      Wait, maybe it's O_K, so that -
    
    
      that - that we can - that we have one node per construction.
    
    
      Cuz even in  people,  like, they don't know what you're  talking  about if you're using some sort of strange  construction. 
    
    
      Yeah, they would still c- sort of get the closest, best fit.
    
    
      Well, yeah, but I mean, the - uh, I mean, that's what the construction parser would do. Uh, I mean, if you said something completely arbitrary, it would f- find the
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      closest construction, right? But if you said something that was completel- er - h- theoretically the construction parser would do that -
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      But if you said something for which there was no construction whatsoever,
    
    
      n- people wouldn't have any idea what you were talking about.
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      Like "Bus dog fried egg." I mean.
    
    
      You know.
    
    
      Or, if  even  something Chinese, for example.
    
    
      
    
    
      Or, something in Mandarin, yeah.
    
    
      Or Cantonese, as the case may be.
    
    
      What do you think about  that,  Bhaskara?
    
    
      
    
    
      I mean -
    
    
      Well -
    
    
      But how many constructions do - could we possibly have 
    
    
      nodes for?
    
    
      In  this  system, or in r-
    
    
      No,  we.  Like, when people do this kind of thing.
    
    
      Oh, when p- How many constructions do  people  have?
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      I have not  the slightest idea. 
    
    
      Is it considered to be like in - are they considered to be like very, uh, sort of s- abstract things?
    
    
      Every noun is a construction.
    
    
      O_K, so it's like in the  thousands.
    
    
      The - Yeah. 
    
    
      Any - any form- meaning  pair, to my understanding, is a construction.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      So.
    
    
      And form u- starts at the level of noun - Or actually, maybe even  sounds.  Yeah.
    
    
       Phoneme.  Yep.
    
    
      And goes upwards
    
    
      until you get
    
    
      the  ditransitive  construction.
    
    
      And then, of course, the c- I guess, maybe there can be the -
    
    
      S-
    
    
      Can there be combinations of the dit-
    
    
      Discourse-level 
    
    
      Yeah. 
    
    
      constructions.
    
    
      The "giving a speech" construction,
    
    
      Rhetorical constructions. Yeah.
    
    
      Yes.
    
    
       
    
    
       
    
    
      But, I mean,
    
    
      you know, you can  probably  count -
    
    
      count the ways.
    
    
      I mean.
    
    
      It's probab- Yeah, I would s- definitely say it's finite.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      And at least in compilers, that's all that really matters, as long as your analysis is finite.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      How's that?  How it can be finite, again?
    
    
      
    
    
      Nah, I can't think of a way it would be  infinite. 
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      Well, you can come up with  new  constructions.
    
    
      Yeah. 
    
    
      If the - if your - if your brain was totally non-deterministic,
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      then perhaps there's a way to get, uh,
    
    
      infin- an infinite number of constructions that you'd have to worry about.
    
    
      But, I mean, in the  practical sense, it's impossible.
    
    
      Right. Cuz if we have a fixed number of neurons - ? 
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      So the best-case scenario would be the number of constructions - or, the  worst-case  scenario is the number of constructions equals the number of neurons.
    
    
      Well, two to the power of the number of neurons.
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      But  still 
    
    
       finite. 
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      No, wait. Not  necessarily,  is it?
    
    
      We can end the  meeting. I just -
    
    
       Can't you use different var- different levels of activation?
    
    
      across, uh -
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      lots of different neurons, to specify different values?
    
    
       
    
    
      Um, yeah, but there's, like, a certain level of -
    
    
       
    
    
      There's a bandwidth issue, right? Yeah.
    
    
      Bandw- Yeah, so you can't do better than something.
    
    
      Turn off the mikes. Otherwise it gets really tough for the tr- 
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    

  



  

  


  

    
      If you're popular.
    
    
      One two three four five six  - I'm on seven.
    
    
      We're on.
    
    
      It's probably the P_Z_Ms. 
    
    
      Yeah. 
    
    
      So, I think we pre-crashed, so I think we're O_K.
    
    
      Pre-crashed.
    
    
      So it should be a really short meeting, I hope.
    
    
      Uh, agenda items, number one, I wanna talk - since we were just discussing that - is microphone issues. What the heck are we gonna do about microphones?
    
    
      So uh I got passed on that the E_D_U group doesn't like the
    
    
      
    
    
      Oh.
    
    
      uh, Crown mikes.  I  do. I l- I think - I find them very comfortable. Uh, but it seems to depend on your head shape.
    
    
      Who does? 
    
    
      I do.
    
    
      Yeah, I do too.
    
    
      So you guys need to start going to the E_D_U meetings.
    
    
      I see.
    
    
      Yeah right.
    
    
      They don't work for me very well. I much prefer these.
    
    
      That's right.
    
    
      Yep. Um,
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Me too.
    
    
      So do I.
    
    
      I  prefer  these, but I don't mind using those.
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      Th- those are intimidating.
    
    
      So apparently they - they like
    
    
      It has one good effect, that people are trying to get there early because the people who get there early get to pick the mike.
    
    
      
    
    
       O_K.
    
    
      
    
    
      Interesting.
    
    
      People who show up late have to use  these.  So,
    
    
      um, we should probably get different mikes. So the question is, the easiest thing to do is certainly to just get two more, um,
    
    
       Sony  mikes.
    
    
      Just two more of  those,  um. And that - that's easy and that will certainly work.
    
    
      The other option is to try yet another mike.
    
    
      
    
    
      Find one we like and potentially get  six,  all the  same. 
    
    
      I have a question about this.
    
    
      Are the auditory quality - Is it, uh, much different between this kind and the - the fancy ones?
    
    
      Um,  these  are better, if they're worn correctly.
    
    
      They are.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      Those are better than the Sonys?
    
    
      Have you -
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Yeah, definitely.
    
    
      Have you  listened  to - to  them?
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Yeah?
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      So, I mean, they're  not  a  lot  better, but they  are  a  little  better.
    
    
      Are they more directional, the microphones, as far as -
    
    
      Um, they're more directional, a little better error - uh, noise cancellation, and also you can really get it right in front of your mouth, like this, whereas that one, to avoid breath noise, you really have to put it at - to the side.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      So you seem to get better signal with this one.
    
    
      The other thing is, is it just a few people who don't like them in the E_D_U group? Cuz -
    
    
      I don't know, but - you know, in - in sort of random polling 
    
    
      L- Liz - Liz said something that leaves me believing that  nobody  likes them.
    
    
      They are ver-
    
    
      Gosh, cuz I  much  prefer them, I think they're a whole lot, multiple levels, better.
    
    
      It seems a shame t- to discard -  discard  them if - if they're better auditory quality and there're only a few people who dis- who object.
    
    
      I mean, so s-
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      Yeah, that's why I was saying if we could just unplug them and plug them in.
    
    
      Well, I mean, that's the other option, is that we could switch the form so it's more obvious the distinction between channel and mike, um, and then get
    
    
      
    
    
      You know, pretty -
    
    
      
    
    
      duplicates. I mean, there's no problem with that. It's just - what -
    
    
      Hmm.
    
    
      Should we get just more  Sony  ones? I  hate  the  Sony  ones.
    
    
      Which ones are those?
    
    
      b- the one you're wearing. Because it - it pinches -
    
    
      The one I'm wearing? Oh.
    
    
      Those.
    
    
      pinches the  temples  too much.
    
    
      Oh.
    
    
       And -
    
    
      I mean, so, if you  wear  it sort of around the  back,  it's not  too  bad.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      I hate it because it's hard to adjust the  microphone.  I mean, I spend all this time fumbling around with it and  still  not
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      But I -
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      reasonable, yeah.
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      So, I mean, we could try another mike.
    
    
      But then we have the wiring issue, and -   So I - I don't know  what  to do. What do - what do people think?
    
    
      But the problem is again the - the plug, or - ? 
    
    
      Wh-
    
    
      The plug is proprietary. So that's why I was saying getting more  Sony  ones is trivial, because we can just go out and buy them. Any other ones we have to buy them in pigtail versions and get them wired.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      
    
    
      O_K, n- now may- maybe I just don't know this but, um, are the only two possibilities from  Sony  the two that we've  tried?  Or is there another -
    
    
      Yes.
    
    
      So, the only possibilities from Sony are  that  one and the lapel mike.
    
    
      I see. O_K.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      Oh, I see.
    
    
      So this isn't Sony. This is Crown. The one we're wearing.
    
    
      Isn't that something. O_K.
    
    
      And so we had these wired for us.
    
    
      Oh. I see. O_K.
    
    
      Well, it s- It seems like right  now  if - if u- what they're complaining are  those,  if we just got two more of  these  - 
    
    
      And so -
    
    
      Huh, I remember that now.
    
    
      I think that's probably the right first step is just get two more immediately, and have them available.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      And then they can just unplug those from the -
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      And just make sure that you write down "Crown" or "Sony" on the mike number, which I'll change to mike type, or something like that.
    
    
      transmitter.
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      It might be good to double check at the end of the meeting too, cuz that would be an easy place for, uh, an error in the data.
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      For it to be forgotten.
    
    
      Well, it'll be me -
    
    
      It'll be whoever's setting up the meeting, who fills out the key file, so
    
    
      O_K, it's just - I'm just thinking that if - it'd be - yeah, but I know - but I mean to have the  user  fill it out wouldn't be as reliable as have the - 
    
    
      It has the same potential for error as everything else.
    
    
      No, no, we definitely would  not  have the user fill it out. It would be me, Chuck, or Liz, depending on which meeting it is.
    
    
      Good, O_K.
    
    
      Perfect.
    
    
      Perfect, O_K.
    
    
      O_K, so we'll de- definitely go ahead and do that.
    
    
      How much is it just to buy the mike?
    
    
      Couple hundred.
    
    
      Really.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Is that more or less than you thought?
    
    
      It depends on how good the mike is.
    
    
      Oh that's  way  more than I thought. I - yeah.
    
    
      Oh, O_K.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      For one of  these? 
    
    
      Well the  Crown  ones were like two-fifty. I think  those  are like one-ninety.
    
    
      God.
    
    
      Oops.  
    
    
      Wow!
    
    
      But.
    
    
      Is there any educational discount? 
    
    
      Yeah right. 
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      No. 
    
    
      Student discount.
    
    
      Yeah, good mikes are expensive. So.
    
    
      And when I was at Computer Motion we used Shure, the S_M-ten-A's, and I  think  they were only like eighty  bucks  or something.
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      Yeah, eighty or ninety for the Shures. So.
    
    
      Yeah. But they were - they seemed pretty good.
    
    
      I mean, the  Sony  ones are expensive because they're proprietary, so they can charge whatever they want. These are expensive because they're quite high quality. So.
    
    
      Oh.
    
    
      Right, right.
    
    
      So we should buzz  that out if we send the data to Sony.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      Ah, come on.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      We should keep a list of things we're gonna bleep out and the conditions under which - 
    
    
      
    
    
      Well, I'm just joking.
    
    
      So, you do  not  have to bleep that out. I don't mind if Sony knows my opinion. So.
    
    
      
    
    
      Hmm.
    
    
      Um.
    
    
      Also, we're pro- I wanna double check with Morgan, he  did  say yes  before  I went to Japan on buying another wireless system so that we can go all wireless, instead of the mix of wired and wireless. And I think that's the right thing to do.
    
    
      So then all those red channels there would become wireless ones?
    
    
      And I'm -
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      Cool.
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
       Uh-huh. 
    
    
      Four more wireless.
    
    
      Um.
    
    
      And also I'm gonna re-  probably  replace the Andrea mike with a Shure, but I'll test it, uh, sometime today or tomorrow to make sure the Shure one really works, cuz I have an extra Shure in my office.
    
    
      The Andrea mike?
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Yeah, apparently it's had some problems.
    
    
      That's causing problems, yeah.
    
    
      Which one is the Andrea mike?
    
    
      It was over here sometimes.
    
    
      A wired one?
    
    
      The - yeah a wired one.
    
    
      Yeah. It's uh -
    
    
      Well, if you're gonna go to all wireless,
    
    
      Oh, you mean in the meantime.
    
    
      This one.
    
    
      In the meantime, right, because uh -
    
    
      Ah, I see.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      
    
    
      it'll - it'll probably take a couple weeks to get it delivered from Sony anyway.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      I haven't - In the meetings that I recorded s-
    
    
      So -
    
    
      It's always been at most six people, so I've never had to -
    
    
      Oh really? Yeah.
    
    
      Recently I haven't had to used any of the wired ones at all.
    
    
      I guess cuz everyone's been out of town. Probably over the summer it'll be the same cuz it tends to be less,
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      fewer people.
    
    
      Um,
    
    
      File -
    
    
      Uh, done with microphone issues, I think?
    
    
      
    
    
      Should we close the door?
    
    
      If you want.
    
    
      Oh, I'm thinking - I don't know about the acoustics. That's - that's all I was wondering about.
    
    
      And this way we can get a door-slam in the uh - in the transcript file.
    
    
      Yeah. 
    
    
      Yeah that's right, we gotta get the obligatory door-slam. 
    
    
      
    
    
      Oh well. No- not quite a slam.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      There's some knocks.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      Get a special phone for that.
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      Uh, the door-slam phone?
    
    
      I guess, right, the door-slam phone. 
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      You have a special phone?
    
    
      No, we could add one.
    
    
      Oh, we could add one, yeah.
    
    
      And then we could have the  phone  phone,
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      
    
    
       That's an idea.
    
    
      for - for when the phone rings.
    
    
      
    
    
      Um,
    
    
      Uh, file reorganization.
    
    
      This is something we were talking about  before  I left and saying we should probably wait until  after  I'm  back,  and now I'm back, so, we should do that at some point. So we should
    
    
      get ourselves a list of everything we wanna do to reorganize the file structure and anything else.
    
    
       
    
    
      Can I - can I just mention something?
    
    
      Sure.
    
    
      Um, uh, I think the file regards reorganization. Also, um, another issue there is disk space probably, right? Um, so
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      I know that the files that you've been cutting up for us
    
    
      f- for the recognition experiments, uh, one way - one really
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      brain -
    
    
      uh, brain-dead way of - of - of
    
    
      not causing any trouble, but saving disk space is to, uh, use the s- the
    
    
      Sphere, the NIST, uh, W_encode program.
    
    
      to - to encode, you know, to compress them.
    
    
      Shorten. Is that the same as shorten?
    
    
      Uh, yeah, but it does it s- it happens so that the program that reads the waveforms does the unshortening transparently.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Well, O_K, you mean it's built into the S_R_I, because we have the same thing with shorten in the  sound  tools.
    
    
      So.
    
    
      Y- uh, I  guess,  but it
    
    
      um,
    
    
      So it's just a question of - of what decompression is built into your tools.
    
    
      Well, it's -
    
    
       Well like - Hhh. 
    
    
      It's actually built into the Sphere library that NIST delivers, so - Right.
    
    
      Oh really? I didn't know that.
    
    
      And actually, s- the sound tools  don't  understand that.
    
    
      For the -
    
    
      At least Feacalc doesn't.
    
    
      At least  Feacalc  doesn't. So.
    
    
      Well, that's not a sound tool, right.
    
    
      But since - since these files are made to be used with the S_R_I recognizer,
    
    
      uh and the S_R_I front-end uses the Sphere library which in turn does this
    
    
      transparently
    
    
      um,
    
    
      uh, that will be a quick and -
    
    
      quick and easy way to just, uh, get you know, uh, be able to use more -
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      The other thing I could do to relieve some of the pressure um is just move everything
    
    
      to my eighteen gig  disk,  which is local.
    
    
      But that's gonna be only  temporary.  
    
    
      Well,
    
    
      I mean, I don't know -
    
    
      I mean, you should do that too,
    
    
      probably, but - but as you do that you can also just run the -
    
    
      Yeah, it is kind of a temporary solution.
    
    
      To shorten everything.
    
    
      well, actually, the - th- what you do is you run -
    
    
      Oh, now I have another use for the - 
    
    
      The way I recently used it, and there might be better ways - So the program's called W_encode.
    
    
      Mmm.
    
    
      And I think the type, y- you say um
    
    
      I think dash T_ and then there are different -
    
    
      different encoding methods, but if you wanna use the shorten one, you say d- "minus T_ shorten",
    
    
      and then the old
    
    
      uh wavefile and the  new 
    
    
      wavefile, and then - Oops!  And then I check, you know, if this works, so, you can use the -
    
    
      the shell "AND" operator or something.
    
    
      Then I just move the
    
    
      new wavefile to the,
    
    
      you know, to the old
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      wavefile, and then you have replaced the old one with one that behaves identically as long as your programs that use it know how to
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      decode it on the fly.
    
    
      And that -
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      that just saved my butt because I actually was running - On a different experiment, I had
    
    
      segmented -
    
    
      I was processing the whole Switchboard-two corpus, which is two hundred eighty hours of speech,
    
    
      and I was noticing, as I was
    
    
      almost finishing the processing, that I was running out of disk space. 
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      And - and so
    
    
      I uh had this flash of inspiration of just uh the same - the same disk had the segmented waveforms on them, so I -
    
    
      
    
    
      Shortening everything on the fly. 
    
    
      while this other thing was still going  on,  I was run- I was running this -  this  thing. 
    
    
      You had another process running that was shortening it. Yep.
    
    
      
    
    
      Wow, wow!
    
    
      And low and behold I gained three g- three gig of space and um, you know -  
    
    
      Wow!
    
    
      
    
    
      Did you have to re-nice one of the processes to make sure that "shorten"?
    
    
      No, no.  Actually it was fast enough. This is very fast. This - this really runs quickly. And that's -
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      Wow.
    
    
      That must have been suspenseful. 
    
    
       Watching the disk meter.
    
    
      That was  very   suspenseful.  That was - that was the most excitement I had all weekend. Uh, uh boy, it uh  came out just fine. So. 
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      To be O_K. 
    
    
      You know what would be a -
    
    
      u- I don't know if this would mess other things up, but -
    
    
      It seems like kind of a pain to have all these split up files around. What would be easier would be like pointers.
    
    
      The list, yep.
    
    
      You know, lists like "original wavefile, start, end".
    
    
      Start end.
    
    
      This is -
    
    
      Yep, the way  Feacalc   - calc does it.
    
    
      Right, the - the only reason we do this is because the - the S_R_I front-end doesn't have a way to - to um 
    
    
      go into a l- a longer file with indices.
    
    
      Um, so I - I suppose
    
    
      And segment on the fly. 
    
    
      someone could try to put a hack like that into the - 
    
    
      It would be easy.
    
    
      It wouldn't be hard at all. Someone just needs to d- sit down and do it who has some time.
    
    
      So.
    
    
      But there's also some - I guess -
    
    
      And that way we wouldn't have multiple versions floating around. About the only difficulty with that is if it's  compressed. 
    
    
      Then you really  do  have to decompress it  first. 
    
    
      That's true.
    
    
      Right? Because the pointers are -
    
    
      Y- you don't know how much it's comp-
    
    
      Well, is there - is there - is there a NIST routine which
    
    
      It doesn't compress it by a fixed amount.
    
    
      Exactly. Right right right right right.
    
    
      can seek
    
    
      in a compressed file but with uncompressed indices?
    
    
      I don't think so.
    
    
      And  yeah I mean, that - it -
    
    
      No, no. I mean, if you -
    
    
      Th- the - the - the -
    
    
      If you can operate on the full -
    
    
      If you  don't  have to  segment  it, then there would be less of a reason to do the  compression,  because you don't have that wasted -
    
    
      
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      that extra  copy.  So.
    
    
      Right we - I mean the original  Switchboard  files are not compressed, right? So we could leave those as they  are. 
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      Well, I mean, it just depends on how much disk space is a problem. I mean the - what you could do is decompress it to a temporary place and then operate on it and then delete it.
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      But.
    
    
      I mean, the segmentation also  saves  you space in the sense that you cut out all the  nonspeech  regions.
    
    
      Just silences, yeah.
    
    
      And if you have, you know, twenty channels and only five speakers, then it's -
    
    
      That's true.
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      Well, assuming you'd - Yeah. Assuming that you then off-load the original
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Switchboard files.
    
    
      So.
    
    
      
    
    
      Mmm.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Well, it seems like just shortening them is a good short-term solution so we don't have to do any coding.
    
    
      Yeah, yeah.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      But I think - kind of - We've had - There was a big disk crash when you were gone and -
    
    
      So.
    
    
      No, it was - I was still here. It was the day I left. 
    
    
      Oh was that the day you left?
    
    
      
    
    
      That's suspicious.
    
    
      
    
    
      He did it on purpose.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      
    
    
      Leave to Japan the day the disk crashes.
    
    
      No if I - if I had done it on purpose I would have timed it right  after  I left. 
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      But, um - Yeah so, Chuck helped me out in, uh, r-
    
    
      regenerating all the cha- the different channel files for like a few meetings - for like six meetings. So I think they're split up even further. It's kind of even more disorganized now since
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      
    
    
      we moved some of the meetings to different directories.
    
    
      They're on a different disk even, right?
    
    
      Are they?
    
    
      I think - you - didn't you expand them to X_E on Abbott?
    
    
      X_F.
    
    
      No, you - the ones that
    
    
      Oh, different ones?
    
    
      You - the ones that you put them on when you put them on X_E.
    
    
      I don't remember where I put them now.
    
    
      I think you put them on X_E. So.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      Well what we - what we found out was that um the disk that crashed
    
    
      was - it - w- with a - with a meta disk allocation, you had both c- t- transcripts and the shortened files and the expanded files were all on X_E - were on the same - sorry, different partitions of the same physical disk.
    
    
      Physical disk.
    
    
      Mmm.
    
    
      And it's conceivable I mean, I - I don't - I mean, so um, I was told that it's  possible  that that might have, uh, caused additional wear on it. Maybe caused it to - to go bad sooner.
    
    
      Well, I think there was something else going on, because uh Dave Johnson said that D_D was getting accessed  frequently.  And it  shouldn't  be.
    
    
      Hmm.
    
    
      Oh. Uh-huh.
    
    
      Right? That data never gets touched, because we write it once and then we never touch it again.
    
    
      Well, why not?
    
    
      Oh sure it does.
    
    
      Yeah, after each meeting we copy the data to -
    
    
      Except that -
    
    
      Well, I mean, so the wavefiles, or - or anything at all, because the transcripts are there as well.
    
    
      The wave files.
    
    
      I mean, he was saying gigabytes.
    
    
      Oh, gigabytes. I see.
    
    
      And so, it has to be the wave files.
    
    
      Yeah, there  was  something weird about that.
    
    
      Yeah, that's right.
    
    
      Yeah, so I asked Dave about it and he hasn't looked into it yet, but we should definitely double check on it.
    
    
      Yeah like - like the same
    
    
      meeting - shortened, files that we pull off of Popcorn when we're done doing the recording,
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      looked,
    
    
      to the  backup  software, as if they had been written,
    
    
      you know, every single  night, 
    
    
      Every night.
    
    
      Is that right.
    
    
      i- for - f- you know, a week in a  row,  which is really weird.
    
    
      That's  very  strange. I didn't realize that. O_K.
    
    
      Wow.
    
    
      So at any rate, so for file reorganization we need to  first  decide what we're gonna do and then when we're gonna do it.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      So I'm not sure who isn't involved with that. I mean, certainly me, Chuck and Jane. Anyone else  care?
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      And I - and I'd like, in terms of the conventions, to also, uh, you know, s- send a bit to Dan Ellis to see if it's - if there's any - get his input on it. I don't think - I don't think that'll be - Yeah.
    
    
      No.
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      
    
    
      So, maybe we should do that
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
       not  during this meeting but s- another time, and just get a list of everything we're gonna do.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Maybe n- next week if we  could.  I'm trying to finish up some stuff.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      Yeah sure. I'd like to -
    
    
      So just update all the naming conventions and
    
    
      put all the files where they really belong, on one disk,
    
    
      That sounds like a good idea.
    
    
      and then leave - leave everything in place until the back-up - until the next full back-up and then delete the old ones.
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      O_K, now - and you're just - you're not talking about the s- the X_ disks - the X_ uh partitions, just the backed up space, or - ? 
    
    
      So.
    
    
      Well,  both  need to be reorganized.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      So um,
    
    
      
    
    
      various paths, th- I mean this is why we have to do it in a synchronized way, because um
    
    
      
    
    
      I think we should also at the same time try to, uh, convert over to your new naming conventions.
    
    
      Yes,
    
    
      exactly. That too.
    
    
      That'd be good.
    
    
      So that's what I was saying. We need to get a list of all that stuff that we wanna do.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      And so
    
    
      I didn't really get any responses from the naming conventions that I sent out, so I assume that's alright with everyone.
    
    
      I actually haven't looked at it yet. I haven't had a chance, so. 
    
    
      No.
    
    
      Hmm. 
    
    
      I haven't either. Sorry. 
    
    
      Oh.
    
    
      
    
    
       And -
    
    
      I will by next  week,  though. 
    
    
      Uh, I don't know about the naming, I mean,
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      Then I should have made that as an agenda item.
    
    
      Th- so these names that we've been using so far are with uh
    
    
      uh
    
    
      uh
    
    
      I wouldn't just wanna change them
    
    
      you know, without some advance notice.
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      I mean, th- that's all these  segment  names that we- we've been using. I would rather not mess with them
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Yeah, I'm -
    
    
      until we have some closure on some of the things we are currently
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      dealing with, so -
    
    
      Well, I mean, how  you  choose to do it - the naming is up to you.
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      Well,
    
    
      So.
    
    
      You're talking about different files.
    
    
      I mean, it should probably be -  eventually  should probably be consistent with what you're doing but,
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      yeah, I kind of agree with Andreas, like I'm a little bit -
    
    
      I mean, these -
    
    
      I  looked  at the naming conventions and they look fine to me, but at the same time it was just like you know to rename everything would be -
    
    
      Well, if we -
    
    
      If  we  change things, it won't really affect what  you're  doing, will it?
    
    
      This -
    
    
      No but I think just to be consistent we should also, I mean, have the same conventions, just in case you want -
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      Yeah. So you - but you can switch that any time you want, right?
    
    
      Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's only gonna affect my work. So.
    
    
      Yeah, it's not gonna -
    
    
      I mean, if we -
    
    
      I assume you're not gonna go, like, into, you know,  my  directories and change  my  file names. So. Yeah. 
    
    
       Everybody will use it.  Fine slash U_ slash star. 
    
    
      Right. 
    
    
      I - Actually I was gonna do a global search-replace on all entries at -
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      at ICSI to change M_R to M_R_M at all places at ICSI. 
    
    
      
    
    
      Yeah, that'd be great.
    
    
      
    
    
      Really enjoy that.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      With no - with no advance warning.
    
    
      Y- you -
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      Well, maybe I shouldn't say that on re- record.
    
    
      
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      There was a
    
    
      typo in some of the contracts that Morgan got that someone,
    
    
      
    
    
      one of our sponsors, did a global sear- search and replace for - between "sponsor" and  their  name.
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
       Oh no, oh no.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      And so, it - it was saying, uh -
    
    
      Well, anyway, I won't -
    
    
      Yeah, one - one can imagine that that might be problematic. 
    
    
      I'm not sure whether that's right.
    
    
      
    
    
      Yeah, one can imagine the problems that that would  engender.
    
    
      
    
    
      But this - this name change affects a subset, doesn't need to reflect everything, yeah.
    
    
      So.
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      
    
    
      Um,
    
    
      
    
    
      Thilo, you had - you wanted to talk about the -
    
    
      Yeah, I had one - one short point. I have just installed a Transcriber version on one of our N_T machines so it's available under Windows now.
    
    
      Oh great. Actually someone - I just got an email this week from someone as-
    
    
      Isn't that great?
    
    
      Yeah I re- responded to sh- I have already responded to him. I - I don't know what - what - what he - what the problem was. It was really straightforward, really easy.
    
    
      To Anant?
    
    
      And this is not - Mm-hmm.
    
    
      Oh, I'm sorry, I - I just - So, who did you talk to?
    
    
      There was some - some guy from S_R_I who wanted to - to install - Yeah.
    
    
      Anant?
    
    
      Anant Venkataraman? O_K.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      And he sent an email that he couldn't - couldn't install it and I - I just described him, well, what I did and it was really straightforward, so.   
    
    
      Yeah, O_K. Great.
    
    
      Yeah, O_K.
    
    
      Great. Great. Thanks. Thanks.
    
    
      And this is not just the Transcriber, this is the Channeltrans, right?
    
    
      Yeah, it's the Channeltrans, so the -
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Yeah, excellent.
    
    
      the
    
    
      Cool.
    
    
      things that Dave Gelbart -
    
    
      Excellent.
    
    
      So you should probably talk to a Sys Admin and get it put in some central place.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      So that it'll work on all the N_T machines.
    
    
      
    
    
      Well, I mean, as it stands, I - I guess - yeah I see what you mean. It'll - it'll be on the - on the UNIX side but accessible through the H_drive. Yeah.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      I've -
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      O_K. Yeah. I could do that.
    
    
      So I assume Tcl-T_K wasn't already on the machine, so you had to install it. Yeah.
    
    
      
    
    
      I had i- to install it, yeah.
    
    
      
    
    
      Huh. Yeah.
    
    
      Uh
    
    
      So Andreas, would it be appropriate to ask how the experiments are going?
    
    
      Uh -
    
    
      Oh, well, yeah I - I - I actually wasn't sure whether this is the right meeting for it, because it has uh very little to do with - with  meeting  recordings, but
    
    
      Hmm.
    
    
      
    
    
        you know, I did uh run 
    
    
      um some recognition experiments with ICSI  front-end. 
    
    
      Um
    
    
      Uh, and - and you know, this is the j- joint work with Chuck, and uh,
    
    
      um.
    
    
      So, first,
    
    
      uh, you know, we had -
    
    
      we figured out sometime last week how to
    
    
      um -
    
    
      and - and Chuck wrote this really nice little
    
    
      script - Perl script that
    
    
      takes a uh waveform, runs the feature calculation
    
    
      and then dumps it out into the - into um
    
    
      a f- c- so-called
    
    
      uh cepstra file, which is what the S_R_I system uses to read features. It's essentially uh
    
    
      uh NIST headered
    
    
      uh waveform. You know, it looks like a waveform except instead of samples you have  feature  vectors following the header.
    
    
      Hmm.
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      And um that's all done
    
    
      um
    
    
      by the script, and it works great. And
    
    
      uh I first trained up two
    
    
      systems, because it's gender-dep- you know, the S_R_I system is gender-dependent so to be comparable, I trained uh um on a sh- on a so-called short training set
    
    
      um
    
    
      a male system and a female system,
    
    
      and
    
    
      uh also for debugging purposes, and for the heck of it, I trained um -
    
    
      trained uh on the same training set uh a standard system with the  S_R_I  front-end from  scratch, 
    
    
      um, and compared the two -
    
    
      So, w- what features did you use?
    
    
      Well, we used, uh, twelve P_L_P uh, uh -
    
    
      So not RASTA, just P_L_P.
    
    
      Just P_L_P.
    
    
      Just P_L_P and actually that - uh, one of the questions I had was what the RASTA would possibly buy us. But um, we'll
    
    
      talk about that later. So, the uh - so the baseline system - w- the S_R_I system was - uh used - uh also uh uh used t- twelve uh mel - uh mel cepstra
    
    
      um  based on a twenty-four filter bank
    
    
      um analysis.
    
    
      Um
    
    
      I do  not 
    
    
      know what - So the f- the bandwidth of the um
    
    
       S_R_I  front-end is from hundreds hertz to th- th- thirty-se- thirty-seven fifty or something like that.
    
    
      Thirty-seven fifty.
    
    
      And I do not know what the um
    
    
      ICSI um
    
    
      front-end would do. I mean, what the bandwidth is.
    
    
      Um,
    
    
      
    
    
      but the results are such that uh, let's see -
    
    
      There's one other slight difference, right? Or two -  two  differences.
    
    
      Oh yeah. So the S_R_I system also does um
    
    
      vocal tract length normalization and we couldn't figure out how to do that yet with the ICSI features. So that's one difference. And the other difference is that
    
    
      in the, uh -
    
    
      
    
    
      in the S_R_I system,
    
    
      the uh th- the first - the C_zero, the energy uh feature is normalized slightly differently from the rest. And what they do is
    
    
      Huh.
    
    
      they d- they subtract the maximum -
    
    
      For each waveform segment
    
    
      they subtract the maximum of - of th- over that waveform segment from
    
    
      from the values of - for that waveform.
    
    
      Which is a kind of automatic gain control, that is localized -
    
    
      Do they subtract the max from each i- one or do they subtract each one from the max?
    
    
       Who cares?
    
    
      They subtract -
    
    
      
    
    
      Doesn't matter?
    
    
      No, just would be a sign change.
    
    
      Except you get a lot of negatives the other way. 
    
    
      Right,  right, right. Um, and  then,  after - But after they done this waveform based normalization, they  then  do a  conversation  length normalization just like all the other features.
    
    
      So it's their kind of two stage normalization.
    
    
      Oh! 
    
    
      Oh! 
    
    
      Um now, I understand that the common practice  here  has been to just do c- standard uh mean subtraction, um on the waveform.
    
    
      Um.
    
    
      For the C_zero.
    
    
      Right. But in what  we've  done so far, because we didn't have any special provision for  C_zero , we just treat it as - as any of the  other  features, we've done standard mean subtraction over the whole
    
    
      conversation side.
    
    
      So
    
    
      um since both S_R_I and ICSI use this sort of local normalization for C_zero that's presumably, you know, someone has done some experiments to - and found out that that works better.
    
    
      Um, so that's another difference, and that might account for some of the
    
    
      discrepancies in the results. Um, but you know. So the
    
    
      the  results  are 
    
    
       um
    
    
      Where should I start? Uh
    
    
      the -
    
    
      So there's a two -
    
    
      Oh. I tried it  with  and  without.  Uh.
    
    
      So  without 
    
    
      and with  adaptation. 
    
    
      How many iterations?
    
    
      For the adaptation?
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      Well, y- we always do three E_M iterations to
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      and it's - it's this - it's this quick and dirty -
    
    
      the  phone  loop adaptation which doesn't actually require prior recognition paths and - and so this is not the best you can  do  with adaptation, but it gives you sort of a first
    
    
      idea of what you could gain with it.
    
    
      And then, you know, so we have the
    
    
      the S_R_I front-end
    
    
      and the ICSI front-end
    
    
      and other than that the system configuration was identical. So it was the same -
    
    
      They came up with um
    
    
      you know, same number of uh Gaussians per state cluster
    
    
      Um, same - The clustering used the same information loss threshold, which actually led to roughly the same number of Gaussians overall. So that the system configuration is - is comparable.
    
    
      Um, and the -
    
    
      
    
    
      Uh, so  without  adaptation,
    
    
      you had forty-nine p-
    
    
      That's error rate or recognition rate?
    
    
      This is error rate
    
    
      in percent.
    
    
      And
    
    
      with adaptation
    
    
      it's forty-seven point one
    
    
      and
    
    
      this - this was fifty-two point six.
    
    
      and
    
    
      fifty-one point three
    
    
      Hmm.
    
    
      and then, when I combined them - I can actually combine them with
    
    
      something like ROVER. It's actually more sophisticated than ROVER but it's - 
    
    
      Um, here I got
    
    
      forty-eight point five
    
    
      and here I got forty-six point five.
    
    
      So this is just combination at the utterance level.
    
    
      Um.
    
    
      At the utterance level, right.
    
    
      Why do you think the ICSI front-end is so much  worse? 
    
    
      Good  question.    That's fine .
    
    
      That seems really odd to me.
    
    
      Um, so, one percent I would attribute to the lack of V_T_L, about one percent. O_K.
    
    
      Oh right. Right, right, right.
    
    
      O_K. Ah O_K.
    
    
      And then maybe another up - I don't know how much the C_zero normalization business really matters I can't it see, I mean can't see it - the 
    
    
      Ca- can you run the S_R_I - Just as an experiment, run the S_R_I front-end without vocal tract norma- normalization, and see how much difference it makes?
    
    
      I  could.  Yeah.
    
    
      I could certainly do that. Yeah.
    
    
      Um.
    
    
      We could  also  do the vocal tract length normalization with the  ICSI  features. That's something we wanted to do - yeah. We could - I was actually thinking we could use the warping factors that we compute for the M_F_C_C's
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      If we could figure out how.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      and just try them with the ICSI
    
    
      uh front-end. Because we already have the capability to apply the warping to the um -
    
    
      to the P_L_P c-  uh Dan added the  -
    
    
      Yeah, Dan added that in, but -
    
    
      Yeah, but the -
    
    
      So.
    
    
      They won't -
    
    
      they don't correspond one-to- one  though.
    
    
      No, but they  should  be
    
    
       close,  since this -
    
    
      
    
    
      I mean the -
    
    
      Anyway. But I can certainly try the S_R_I front-end without uh V_T_L. That sh- that's - that's certainly quick to do.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Um
    
    
      and so -
    
    
      Yeah, and - and then there's all these um -
    
    
      You know, the number of um -
    
    
      You know, this  front-end 
    
    
      u- had a fair amount of experimentation going into it. You know, how many
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      filter banks do you use, what - what bandwidth do you use, and stuff like that. And uh we could play the same kind of games with the  ICSI  front-end.
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      Uh, actually, the  analysis  bandwidth played a very crucial role. We used to use a narrow bandwidth and
    
    
      uh
    
    
      uh that hurt us. So this is, um - And this is - We've now used roughly what everybody else is using. So
    
    
      Hmm.
    
    
      um, there's some room for improvements, I figure, in this - in the ICSI front-end.
    
    
      Um.
    
    
      So.
    
    
      But the good news is that even with this - with the ICSI system being that much  worse,  you still get a win out of  combining  the two.
    
    
      So that gives some hope for the future.
    
    
      Um.
    
    
      Unfortunately however this seems to be reduced with adaptation, so.
    
    
      Um.
    
    
      Also interestingly
    
    
      the -
    
    
      Um, the difference actually  widens.  I would actually expect it or - or  hope  that the adaptation  reduces  the difference  because it might
    
    
      um, for instance,
    
    
      um
    
    
      remove some of the um -
    
    
      
    
    
      You know, som- If you - if you have some - some difference in the front-end processing that
    
    
      uh is suboptimal, but can be possibly remedied by you know moving the
    
    
      um
    
    
      moving the models around. But - but apparently that doesn't -
    
    
      doesn't really - actually the difference becomes larger, so.
    
    
      Um. Anyway. So right now what I'm doing is um -
    
    
      Uh well, there's several things going on. One is that Chuck is working on uh getting the tandem features um into a form that we can train the tandem - the system on the tandem features. So that would actually be the
    
    
      more  interesting  experiment.
    
    
      Um, the other thing is I'm training
    
    
      uh retraining the models on the large training set that we usually use to build our evaluation models and then we can -
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      And I actually  want  to
    
    
      do the  system  combination
    
    
      um  with  our  eval  system um, on some subset of the data at least, probably only for the males, because I don't have time to train both males and females, but um.
    
    
      Uh and um -
    
    
      What about ta-
    
    
      concatenating the two feature vectors into a single one?
    
    
      It gets pretty big.
    
    
      
    
    
      It  does  get pretty big. Yeah.
    
    
      Hmm.
    
    
      And m- my experience with that in Broadcast News was usually combining at other levels works better.
    
    
      Hmm.
    
    
      So.
    
    
      For - for whatever that's worth.
    
    
      Oh, you tried that on Broadcast News? Concatenating
    
    
      Oh yeah.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      So w- Yep.
    
    
      different feature sets? Yeah.
    
    
      Did you try uh -
    
    
      It was mostly M_S_G, P_L_P, RASTA.
    
    
      I see.
    
    
      So, you know, the feature sets we had available. And it was almost always better to combine at the probability level. You know, so we'd run the neural nets and combine the probabilities.
    
    
      I see.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      Alright.
    
    
      Oh.
    
    
      Yeah, and it  does  become sort of unwieldy to have these very large feature vectors. And that would
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      blow up the
    
    
      You'd also have to do some sort of normalization afterwards
    
    
      uh -
    
    
      so that they're uh orthogonal.
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      So you'd wanna do a linear transform also.
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      Um
    
    
      so
    
    
      the - Yeah, and then we could start experimenting a little bit to try to get the ICSI front-end to perform better.
    
    
      Um. And - and as a preliminary just sort of diagnostic experiment we can - I can certainly run a S_R_I system without V_T_L
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      just uh to get -
    
    
      Wi- without what? Without V_T_L. O_K.
    
    
      Just -
    
    
      Vocal tract thing, yeah.
    
    
      Wh- Yeah.
    
    
      And that - that's quick to do.
    
    
      So.
    
    
      I was thinking about
    
    
      tandem system - Well, let's not talk about it here, but I had some thoughts about the tandem system.
    
    
      
    
    
      yeah so but things are moving ahead, so
    
    
      O_K, should we do digits?
    
    
      Digits. Sure.
    
    
      Do we have any other topics?
    
    
      O_K, let's do them one at a  time  instead of simultaneous since we actually have time.
    
    
      Poetic reading of digits.
    
    
      Oh no. 
    
    
      Transcript L_ one O_ five. 
    
    
      nine four two three two seven seven zero nine nine nine seven 
    
    
      O_ nine three eight zero O_ O_ one 
    
    
      two nine O_ eight five five eight seven seven five 
    
    
      three nine five five seven three four four seven nine 
    
    
      six two seven four two seven three eight O_ 
    
    
      eight six five seven zero nine one zero 
    
    
      three five two three zero nine five three 
    
    
      nine two five O_ two nine three three one two 
    
    
      Transcript L_ one zero eight. 
    
    
      six nine four eight seven three two two six two 
    
    
      five five eight seven eight two five two one O_ one nine 
    
    
      one two nine eight one zero six seven nine three 
    
    
      six five eight one nine five eight one 
    
    
      eight one five two one seven two O_ nine 
    
    
      three seven O_ four seven three two nine 
    
    
      zero one two nine six nine nine one three five five O_ 
    
    
      one three five nine nine five three one one six 
    
    
      Why don't we let Don go first before his battery dies?
    
    
      
    
    
      Mmm, O_K.
    
    
      
    
    
      Transcript L_ one O_ six. 
    
    
      two three eight eight seven seven eight one 
    
    
      eight zero four nine one zero seven two zero five seven two 
    
    
      eight nine eight eight six nine six one eight 
    
    
      two four two eight two six seven eight four seven 
    
    
      nine seven five five seven one five zero two zero 
    
    
      one three O_ nine seven two six two four seven zero eight 
    
    
      two two zero eight five seven nine six two zero 
    
    
      seven eight zero four five three six seven nine 
    
    
      Transcript L_ one O_ nine. 
    
    
      O_ nine O_ seven eight nine eight four three 
    
    
      eight six three six eight six eight five six 
    
    
      seven eight four four six five zero zero 
    
    
      seven six three five one five nine O_ O_ two 
    
    
      seven two O_ five eight O_ five six four seven three four 
    
    
      nine three four O_ one four nine two five 
    
    
      nine six nine eight five seven one O_ five eight 
    
    
      four seven seven zero six five seven  four  seven seven five 
    
    
      Do you wanna say that one again? That last one?
    
    
      Um, why? 
    
    
      Or did - did you correct the whole one?
    
    
      I - yeah, sure. Yeah no I - I gotta write, so - I think. Yeah.
    
    
      
    
    
      Oh he did? Never mind. O_K good. Alright. So. 
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      Alright. Transcript L_ ninety. 
    
    
      two three two one two four zero three 
    
    
      five O_ eight two nine one one two O_ 
    
    
      nine one nine O_ three two five nine two seven 
    
    
      two O_ seven four two seven three one three one 
    
    
      three seven six four four O_ two three nine three 
    
    
      nine five nine three five nine nine seven four three 
    
    
      one nine five one seven eight one three 
    
    
      eight zero three nine one seven nine nine eight O_ seven eight 
    
    
      Transcript L_ one zero seven. 
    
    
      one nine one seven one two nine six nine six eight six 
    
    
      nine seven two nine O_ two four five four 
    
    
      eight O_ nine seven one eight zero zero two 
    
    
      seven six four nine nine one two two six 
    
    
      three zero eight one six four zero one 
    
    
      two one three one eight five two six five seven eight zero 
    
    
      three O_ three eight three three eight seven four 
    
    
      one eight one four two eight four - 
    
    
      Sorry, start over. 
    
    
      one eight one four two eight two four five four 
    
    
      You can really tell from the prosody where it goes.
    
    
      s- meeting. I actually have one more thing that - I don't know if it's - i- if - if it's allowed to - to bring up after the dis-
    
    
      After digits, I don't know.
    
    
      Anyway.
    
    
      But it might be important. For um - So Liz remarked that she had recorded a meeting where
    
    
      Go ahead.
    
    
      it was later found that several of the
    
    
      s- microphones were turned off, um
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      and this must become a problem especially with non-speech-meetings.
    
    
      So um
    
    
      is there a way that the software could warn you if it gets zeros from
    
    
      some of the channels, or - ? 
    
    
      Probably. We could probably build that in to the front-end.
    
    
      Because it - you know it's really annoying if you go through all that trouble and then basically the meetings aren't useable because uh even -
    
    
      What are people doing, they're switching their mikes off or something?
    
    
      I don't  know  what they do. Maybe the batteries went dead, or th- they just didn't - they played with the thing and it didn't leave it in the "on" position or whatever.
    
    
      I don't know, uh eh. Fff. 
    
    
      What would you like it to  do  when that happens? 
    
    
      Well, no, if - if you um - I mean obviously you always -
    
    
      I mean, there's never gonna be a signal from all the channels, right? because - or  rarely. 
    
    
      Um.
    
    
      But uh.
    
    
      Well if an unblacked out channel is zero, is actually spitting out zeros, you can be pretty sure it's  off. 
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      Because it doesn't spit out zeros, it spits out epsilons.
    
    
      Right? Cuz there's little background noise. The question is, when the software  detects  it, what do you want it to  do? 
    
    
      Exactly.
    
    
      That's a good  question.  I don't  know.  But is there some - We can collectively think of some - of some mechanism that might reduce the risk of - of just -
    
    
      
    
    
      I mean, it - it - it -
    
    
      We - we  already  have visual feedback, right? You can  see  whether your mike is working or not. Um.
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      Right. So maybe it's just to admonish people to actually look at the screen at the beginning of the meeting to make sure they get a signal.
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      Test -
    
    
      Turn off the screen saver during the meeting.
    
    
      Tell them to test their mikes, or -
    
    
      Yeah, something.
    
    
      I think they sh-
    
    
      Yeah, I d- I don't know what to do other than -
    
    
      It - it can beep if one of the channels dies while recording.
    
    
      There's no sound out right now.
    
    
      Oh.
    
    
      
    
    
      Never mind.
    
    
      It should give the electric shock to the person recording the meeting.
    
    
      Yep. Yep. Yeah yeah. That would be good. Well, we can think about what to do about it, but it -
    
    
      Oh yeah. That's a good one.
    
    
      Wow, that's not a bad idea.
    
    
      Yeah. O_K.
    
    
      It's pretty clear we  can  detect it, so.
    
    
      Yeah. Alright.
    
    
      O_K. Are we done?
    
    
      Yeah.
    

  



   
   
      
         I would say between the ages of 7 to 10 years old it, was a really big thing to go to the movie on Saturday mornings.
         And one particular movie theater we went to, they would show serials every Saturday, which were a continued story.
         So if you missed one Saturday you would miss what happened in a particular episode and you, um, wouldn't know what had taken place.
         So we would go every Saturday morning.
         And also at this theater, they gave prizes to different people.
         And one of the way they gave prizes was, they would take big group photos and everybody, and there were stairs going up to a balcony, real wide stairs.
         And the big group of people would go stand on the stairs and there would be probably 30 or 40 kids in the picture.
         And they'd take the picture and then you would go back the next Saturday after they had been developed and they would have circled 3 or 4 people in the picture and the people whose head was circled would get the prizes.
      
      
         Is that for real?
      
      
         That's for real!
         That really happened!
         And one time I can remember, I think it was Steve, my brother, um, he, and they would give treats like candy, I don't even remember what all kinds of prizes the would give.
         But for some reason, and I think this is really true, he got ice cream sandwiches!
         Like a box of ice cream sandwiches.
         And of course there's nothing to do with a box of ice cream sandwiches when you're at a 2-hour movie!
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         They're going to melt!
         And another, um, that was in, that was in High Point, NC.
         And then we moved to Charlotte and we used to go to - and I don't think its even still there I don't know if the building is or not - but the Dilworth Theatre.
         I lived in the Dilworth area, and we would go to the Dilworth Theatre and I do remember that it cost 9 cents to get a ticket to get in.
         And we would, could go to the movie.
         We would get maybe 15 cents each to go to the movie, and I sound like I'm 95 years old-
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         -with those kinds of prices.
         Um, but we would go to the movie and then you would go in and get your, your snack that you wanted.
         And there were several different choices.
         I don't ever remember getting popcorn at the movie until I was a teenager or in my adult life.
         But we would, uh, buy, lollipops is what they call them now, but we called them suckers and we would get often a 2-cent sucker.
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         Are you making fun?
      
      
         No, I love this story.
      
      
         And the 2-cent suckers is what is referred to now as a Tootsie Roll Pop.
         And we called them 2-cent suckers because every other sucker cost a penny.
         Except these were 2 cents because they had the Tootsie Roll in the middle.
         And there was one other sucker that cost a nickel and we called that an all day sucker, just because you couldn't eat the whole thing for the entire movie and you would really just have that sucker all day long.
         And one other form of refreshment that we got, which really embarrassed my mother because she didn't know anything about this until she went with us to the movie one Saturday, there was a bakery next door to the movie theatre.
         And my brothers and myself were not the only people that did this; all the kids that would go to the movie knew to do this.
         We would go into the bakery and we would ask for-
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         -a nickel worth of scraps!
         
         
      
      
         And we didn't even have to ask for it because the bakery lady knew us and she knew to have all this ready for all the kids going to the movie.
         And what it was it was broken cookies and broken pieces of whatever happened while they were baking, mistakes.
         So they would fill little bags for us and we would give them a nickel and we could take that to the movie theatre with us.
         And that's all the stories I can remember about the movies right now.
         I do know that I did used to go the movie downtown at the Carolina Theatre.
         And when I was young, it wasn't a strange thing for the kids to just go off and go to a movie.
         I mean, my mother knew where we were going and she knew when we would get back, but today you wouldn't send your seven or eight year old child to a movie theatre alone even if they were with their nine year old brother; you just wouldn't do it.
         And we could skate to the movie or ride a bicycle to the movie and we would do that.
         Which is kind of sad that you can't do that anymore and it's not just because things are, there're bad people in the world but it's too much traffic.
         You have to check everything about a movie, check it out to see what the content is and just wasn't like that when I was growing up
         .
         Also about that same time period in my life, I guess again between seven and ten years old, which seems to be what I remember most vividly, my best friend uh, was Kathy Josey, and she was a next door neighbor also, and we remained friends up until, uh, she was about 35 and she passed away with cancer.
         But we, we remained close friends.
         In fact we shared an apartment, first apartment either one of us ever had.
         And when we were, um, little girls we used to play "Career Girls"!
         
         We did!
         And we used to try to dress up and pretend we were businesswomen.
         And we would go to work and pretend we had an apartment together and then when we grew up, we sure did; we got an apartment.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         Um, Kathy and I also used to play other kind of dress ups and it just, it seems like, I remember we both had like our mother's long skirts, or the skirts would be long on us and we would literally wear dress up clothes that belonged to our mothers.
         But we had, Kathy had one pair of pearls or beads of some sort of necklace that was her mother's and I didn't have the necklace.
         And it was really beautiful and I really, really wanted one.
         So we only had the one necklace and we, er, we decided, I don't know if it was jointly or if Kathy was just extremely nice of whatever, but she said I could wear it part of the time.
         And we would literally time the amount of time, we wore it like 30 minutes or 15 minutes or whatever.
         And the way we decided who got to wear it first, and this always kind of bothered me because I know Kathy did this intentionally, she said the youngest one got to wear it first and she was like six months younger than I am.
         So, it, that became
         a normal thing with us.
         Whenever we only had one of something she would always say, "Well, I think the youngest one gets to do it, or wear it or whatever first."
         And, that just always stuck in my mind, that in, in our adult life I brought that up to her and she sort of acted like she didn't know anything about that and I thought to myself, "she does," and then she laughed about it and she realized that she had kinda held a trump card on that one.
         Um, also we did a lot of pretending and as I said we played career girls and the dress ups.
         And my sister and I used to pretend also and Jill is about 2 years younger than I am, maybe two and a half, and we used to play Robin Hood except we didn't have a Maid Marion, we had a Saretha, I don't know where in the world that name came from.
         But we would switch playing Robin Hood, one would play Robin Hood and one would play Saretha.
         And Saretha was the counter, would be the same thing as Maid Marion, and, why, again, I don't know why we didn't use Maid Marion.
         But in my mind I can remember playing that, like all day long.
         And we would go over to my grandparents' and they had a a big white house with a big front porch and, uh, banisters on it and a lot of rocking chairs out on the front porch.
         And it was just a great place to pretend and we would climb up on the porch and on the banisters and we could make those our horses or, uh, it could be a castle; just do many things with it.
         Um, and when we were still living in High Point in our back yard we had a huge, I don't know, I guess it was an oak tree, but it was a really big tree, but it was a climbable tree.
         And it had real large, thick branches extending out to the side and they were fat enough branches where as a child of eight and nine years old we could straddle the branches.
         And that was another game that Jill and I used to play; we would pretend we were in the jungle and we would climb up on the tree and we would straddle the tree branches and pretend it was our elephant.
         And in the yard, we had an old tree that had been cut down and just the stump was remaining and my mother had planted, um, flowers all around that stump and we would use that stump as a, as a throne and the princess got to sit up on that stump on that throne and have all those flowers around her and that would be the throne and she would be the queen or the princess or whatever.
         When I was a teenager, an Audrey Hepburn movie came out called Wait Until Dark.
         And I think I was probably 16 or 17 years old; we were of driving age.
         And I had a group of girlfriends that I ran around with and there were, golly, there might've been 8 to 10 of us who were good friends.
         Everybody had their own "best" friend but then we had one big group that we used to do a lot of things together.
         Um, and we would, had that many girls but we would only go out in a couple of cars and I remember one of the girls, Betty Belle, her dad had a VW Beetle, and we'd fit like 5 girls in that VW Beetle.
      
      
         Did Betty Belle turn Catholic?
      
      
         No, huh-uh.
      
      
         She didn't?
      
      
         No.
         So we went out one night to the movie, but before we went to the movie we went to get pizza and then we went to, and I think the name of the place was The Open Kitchen, and we didn't have chain pizza places like we do now, like Pizza Hut and all that.
         This was just a really neat pizza place that all the kids would go.
         And we went to Open Kitchen and we would have eight or 10 girls and we would order one pizza and all share it and everyone would only get one piece and I think we would make the waitresses mad because we didn't have money to leave tips.
         We would also drink water.
         So it wasn't a good situation for the waitresses, but we had fun and we didn't even think about it.
         We just did what we could get away with.
         Anyway, that night we were gonna go see Wait Until Dark and I think it was on at the Manor Theatre, and I just remember when you have like 10 or so girls going somewhere to the same place it's kind of a, pretty much of a spectacle; we're all in this long line and we're giggling and laughing and cutting up and having really a great time.
         So we bought our tickets and we went into the Manor Theatre and we found a row of seats and we sat, file, all filed in.
         And I just remember seeing, and I was sitting in a middle section, I was not on an end so I had girls I knew on both sides of me.
         And I just remember that movie was, had a lot of hype about being really scary and suspenseful and it's nothing like these movies that are out today like Scream and, what is it?
         Nightmare on Elm Street whatever it is, where they're actual horror movies.
         This was, uh, a real intense, um, drama and, just very scary; kept you on the edge of your seat.
         And there was a scene in the movie I remember where every one of us, and it wasn't just our group, but so many people in the theatre, they screamed out at one time.
         And that's really all I remember about that night, it was just a lot of fun.
         And I really hope that my daughters have had some nights like that and has had good times like that, that I can remember going out with good friends.
      
   

   
   
      
         Welcome back to our show!
         OK.
         This is Maria, and I don't know your last name.
      
      
         Polk.
      
      
         Oh that's good.
         From Polkton, Maria Polk.
         OK.
         And where did you grow up?
         Were you born in this area here?
      
      
         I was born in Cottonville.
         Right outside of Norwood in Stanley County.
      
      
         Oh, OK.
         When you were little, did your mom read you books, or did somebody read you books in your house?
      
      
         My mama read to me and my sister.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
         What kind of books were your favorites?
         Do you remember any that were maybe a real favorite of yours?
      
      
         Mm, I kind of liked them all.
         Um, I didn't really have a favorite.
      
      
         No?
         Any particular types, like ones with pictures or
         .
         Can you think of a story that they told you that you liked for them to read over and over?
      
      
         Um, I think my favorite was like, "Little Red Riding Hood;" I loved that book.
      
      
         "Little Red Riding Hood"?
         So when you read to yourself did you read different stories than the ones they would read to you?
      
      
         Mmm, basically, something different.
      
      
         Did you get to go to the library when you were little?
      
      
         Uh-huh, all the time.
      
      
         Yeah.
         So, you would check books out?
      
      
         Uh-huh.
         Mostly, I liked to spend time reading encyclopedias--
      
      
         Oh, really?
      
      
         --when I was little.
      
      
         You like to read encyclopedias.
         In your family, do you remember if there was any storyteller?
      
      
         Well, my uncle was always telling stories and, uh, we had this house across the street from where I grew up that was old and he ever finished it.
         He started it and he told stories that, um, um, men being in it that house at night and stuff and for us not to go outside at night.
      
      
         Would he scare you?
      
      
         Yeah.
         So we, at a certain time, we were scared to go over there because we'd always go outside and look at the house across the street.
      
      
         Um, did he tell stories to big groups of people, or just one-on-one?
      
      
         Just to our cousins and all of us that hung around each other all the time.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
         Now, do you have kids at your house?
      
      
         No.
         Only, only on Sunday: my niece and nephew and my cousins.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
         Do you like to read to them?
         Do they bring their books over?
      
      
         I read to my niece.
         She likes the pop-out books.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
         How old is she?
      
      
         She's, ah
         six.
         She likes the pictures that pop out at you.
         She likes for me to read them to her.
      
      
         Can she read to herself yet?
      
      
         Not yet, but she tries to.
         Mostly, she just looks at the pictures.
      
      
         Is she, what grade is she in?
         Do you know?
      
      
         She's in kindergarten.
      
      
         She's in kindergarten?
         OK.
         That's pretty much all I need to know, about how you liked reading and things when you were little.
         Is there anything else you'd like to say about this, that comes to your mind?
      
      
         No, not so much.
      
   

   
   
      
         Hi my name is Sandra Reid and I am part of a family of seven children, um, and my mom and dad have passed away.
         During our young years we were very poor.
         
         We did not have very much but my mom always found a way to keep us busy or keep us entertained, and one of the ways that she kept us entertained was by telling stories, reading poems, and singing to us.
         One of the stories that I would like to share with you is the story that is pretty scary and it sticks out into my mind, I guess, mostly, mainly because it was scary.
         Even though my mom told us lot of scary stories she was always there to hold us in her arms and let us know that the story was not true and that it was we were OK.
         Out of all of my sisters and brothers I was the laziest one of all, as far as working around the house.
         All of my sisters learned to cook by the age of eight.
         I learned after I got married
         so I was a pretty lazy child when it came down to cleaning up and cooking.
         So one night my mother asked me to go inside and wash the dishes.
         Naturally, I start crying, and one of my main ways of getting out of work was always saying something hurt me, either my stomach, or that I had a headache, or something was wrong with my leg.
         Just anything to get out of doing my job.
         So after she noticed that I was going to be just a little stubborn and not follow, do what she tell told me to do, she asked me to come around in the living room with her and the rest of the family.
         So she began to tell this story.
         Once upon a time there was this little girl and her family.
         And the mother asked the little girl to please go in and wash the dishes so that she could go to bed early and not come up, wake up in the morning and see all those dishes on the table.
         And her little girl just complained, "I don't want to wash the dishes.
         I don't want to.
         My leg hurts, my head hurts.
         I don't feel good."
         The little girl disappointed her mother so badly, but her mother said, "How in the world am I ever going to get her to wash these dishes?"
         So she said, "Little girl, little girl, if you don't go in there and wash those dishes like I asked, you something really, really bad is going to happen to you."
         So the little girl just said, "OK I'll go in there and wash the dishes."
         And she was in there stomping and crying and mad and taking all her good time.
         All of a sudden the butcher knife came out of the drawer and it began to roll around in the air.
         And before you know it, the butcher knife came around and cut the little girl's head off.
         And when the little girl went to heaven she was crying down to her dad and saying "Daddy, Daddy!
         Mama cut my head off with the butcher knife."
         Now that knife, when I went to sleep it really scared me.
         But the wonderful thing about it my mom was always there close by to let me know that I was OK.
         Now after that, my mother continued to tell us many, many scary stories and tell us many, many, many poems.
         I'd like to tell you about how I got into becoming a teacher's assistant.
         All my life I always wanted to be a teacher even from the time I started to school.
         That was my dream, to teach school.
         As I told you, in the past we were a very poor family and I never got the chance to go to college because of this.
         Uh, while I was in high school a teacher of mine noticed that I had an extra bone in my foot and she said, "Well now Sandra we can use this as get toward, on your grant to go to college."
         So she said, "Go home and talk to your mother about it and see if we, you know, can follow through with applying for a grant, scholarship grant for you."
         So that night I went home and I asked my mother about it and she said, "Baby, I really want you to go to college.
         It's always been my dream that my children all go to school.
         But because there are so many children in the family there are other things you're going to have to have to go to school and I just don't have the money."
         At that time my dad was in prison at the time, so it made it really hard for my mom.
         I sat there and I cried but I tried to be as understanding as possible because I knew my mother struggled really hard to even keep food on the table for us.
         So I never got a chance to go to school.
      
      
         Did anybody?
      
      
         Yes, my brother went to school.
         He went to Livingstone and then to transferred to Johnson C. Smith, so to make it easier on my mom, to, as far as, you know, him staying at home and going to school too.
         So he graduated from, um, Johnson C. Smith, here in Charlotte.
         I had another sister who went to Gaston College where she got a business degree there.
         I, in later years, I went on to college some but I didn't complete the, uh, whole four years.
         Um, I remember once, when I was working in a mill, and I was spinning yarn, and I was saying to myself, and, I was praying actually, and I said, "God, one day I want to work in the school system.
         If I could just work, even as a teacher assistant I would be happy."
         As the years went by my prayer was answered and I got the chance to work in the cafeteria as a cashier and the principal there came up to me and said, "Have you considered being a teacher assistant?"
         I said, "I would love to."
         So they told me about some classes that I could take at Central Piedmont.
         I'd never gone to college before.
         I was really afraid.
         But he told me to go ahead and try it, so I took the entrance test, and they accepted me into at the school, and I took some courses there.
         After a while, the principal said, "I would like for you to bring me your, um, transcript so I can see what your grades are like."
         Luckily I had all A's.
         I did very well.
         And he asked me to be a teacher assistant the next following year.
         Um, my dream, my prayers were answered.
         I enjoy my job very much.
         I can't think of any job that would make me any happier.
         A few years later, um, I had the opportunity to apply for a scholarship to further my education.
         At first I didn't want to apply for it, but the principal called me during the summer months and said, "Sandra the time is running out, you need to apply."
         And he told me I would have to write this paper.
         Well I didn't like writing at the time
         but I took it upon myself to go ahead and write a paper.
         And I went to, um, one of my staff members and I asked her if she would proofread it, and she thought it was an excellent paper.
         And I went ahead and mailed it in thinking uh I won't get the scholarship.
         Who cares?
         I don't, just so I can work in the school I'll be happy.
         But one day I came in and I looked at my mail and I was accepted.
         
         I couldn't believe it.
         Out of 150 assistants who had applied for this grant only 16 got the opportunity, so I felt very proud of myself.
         So I went on and took the courses, and as I started I think I was taking economics.
         I think that was the last class I took.
         My husband became very ill with cancer and I had to make a decision as to whether I would continue my education or take care of him and I felt like I needed to take care of him because he stood by me so much while I was going to school.
      
      
         But you would have been able to be a, a teacher if you had continued?
      
      
         Yeah, and at the time, I was also working in the classroom.
         I guess you'd say as a sub because the teacher that I was working with at that time was pregnant and she had to take a leave of absence.
         And they hired a sub but the sub didn't do that much.
         I had to take over the classroom.
         So I worked maybe like four months in the classroom and that highly put a damper on my wanting
         to be a teacher from all the responsibility along with the fact that I was taking care of a very sick husband.
         After all of this was, after I, I decided not to continue I've never pursued the fact of going back to school.
         I just got to a certain age and I said, "No I can't do this anymore," so I never went back.
         But I love what I do and, uh, anytime I get a chance to teach in a classroom I go for it so.
      
      
         How many different schools did you teach at?
      
      
         I've only worked at two, two schools.
         The first school I worked at was Enderly Park and then it was closed down.
         So I was in those situations where I first, come first, transfer last, come first to transfer out.
         So I had to, I was offered a job at Ashley Park or Berryhill and I chose Berryhill.
         I didn't particularly want to come here and when I came here everybody noticed that I was really, really sad because I loved being at Enderly Park.
         But then, after awhile, I fell in love with Berryhill.
         If I'm not mistaken I think I've been at Berryhill for I think 17 years, 17, 18 years I've been here at Berryhill so and I hope I never have to leave until I retire.
         
      
      
         And why did the other school close down?
      
      
         Um, the, you know, I really don't know.
         Um, that, I really don't know why they closed that school down because it was a really nice school and everything, but they eventually tore it down because I was there I think the first year I went there was the year they built a really nice gym, and I don't think they used that gym no more than three years.
         I really don't, I don't remember why that school was ever closed but it was.
         And I enjoy what I do.
         That's it.
      
      
         All right thank you.
      
      
         Thank you.
      
   

   
   
      
         My name is Bonnie Rindner and I was born in San Antonio, TX, and the story I'm going to tell is about my mother.
         Um, a little background first.
         Her, let's see, her mother's family were wealthy people at one time.
         They owned car dealerships and extensive land.
         Um, I don't know if they were farmers or not, but I know they were land owners, um, many acres and, um, her grandmother was raised in wealth.
         Uh, then the Depression came and apparently everyone lost all their money.
         Um, she was raised in MO, and she married a man, this is my grandmother I'm talking about.
         And they were very poor by this point, and they had, I think, seven children.
         And one particular Christmas, things were very, very difficult.
         There was no money to buy any presents at all, um, for the children, and my grandfather, who was killed when my mother was 16, this was, of course, way before that, um, he must have been a very positive person because what he did with the situation was he, he told the children that there were no presents this Christmas because they had given them all to Santa to take the poor children and this made the children feel happy and proud of themselves and it gave them a good feeling that they had done something very nice for someone less fortunate than themselves.
         Um, I felt like that was a way to face that situation with such hope and with joy and with love.
         And although I never met my grandfather, I have never forgotten that story and when I hear of him I think what a wonderful, wonderful person he must have been.
      
      
         And how long have you lived in Charlotte?
      
      
         Oh, I have lived in Charlotte, um, for a year.
         Um, I lived in Charlotte for five years.
         We came here in 1986, we lived here for five years, then we moved to Raleigh for seven years and now we've been back one year.
      
      
         Well, good.
      
   

 
     		
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		uh how do you feel about gun control
 	
 	
 		uh on the scale they gave one to ten i'd say i'm probably a four
 		i'm not totally i'm not
 		one of these people that believes that we should not be able to buy guns but i don't think we should be carrying Uzis either  you know what i mean  yeah i know i mean i don't think machine guns automatic weapons i don't believe in things like that but i think
 	
 	
 		some people do i know
 	
 	
 		that everyone should have the right to have a hand gun in their house if they so choose and but i think there should be some  restrictions when you buy one you know they should do more background search on you they should i think it should be harder to buy one
 	
 	
 		right
 		yeah there's a lot of crazies out there that can just go in and buy a gun because they don't really ask a lot of questions when you walk into those stores
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		no they don't they don't ask anything except how old you are i don't think that's kind of scary
 	
 	
 		i'm from California  my mom the last time i was like purchased a gun my  my mom was getting a rifle for my brother that he wanted like an antique one  and
 	
 	
 		uh-huh
 	
 	
 		they he had to fill out some forms but i guess California might be tougher i don't know
 	
 	
 		yeah they might be or you know how we are here in Texas it's like everybody's a hunter so  i'm not much of a hunter but
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		it's
 	
 	
 		i've never even bought a gun myself my dad's given it to me or someone's given me one so i'm probably real illegal you know carrying guns that aren't even mine
 	
 	
 		
 
 		yeah it's a it's a hard decision to make
 	
 	
 		it really is uh the only problem i have with gun control is that they the radicals wanna ban all kinds of weapons and then the only people carrying guns are gonna be be the people who are gonna kill you anyway
 	
 	
 		like the bumper sticker  it's true yeah
 	
 	
 		yeah exactly right it really is because they're gonna get them one way or another they will always have a way look at drugs they always have a way to get that so
 	
 	
 		right
 		right right
 	
 	
 		and they're illegal so i don't think it would do us any good to outlaw them all together
 	
 	
 		
 
 		no i yeah i i i i i agree that it would be like people in
 		people that are uh criminals are the ones that are gonna get them and then you have no defense against these people when they do  come into your house or something
 	
 	
 		right
 		that's true
 		i think they ought to teach people how to shoot them too how to take care of one how to act around one when they buy them
 	
 	
 		yeah i have have gun gun have have gun management 101
 	
 	
 		right yeah exactly you cannot take the gun home until you've taken this course sign up here  something like that
 	
 	
 		yeah or required required required for every college student  oh
 	
 	
 		right exactly  before graduation
 	
 	
 		God gun control  it's it's such a heated topic in the the and people get so emotional about it
 	
 	
 		yep
 		oh yeah they do they get real emotional about it all the i've worked with a lot of people that hunt and they just they they don't see any sense in it at all
 		they think it's ridiculous to have any kind of gun control but then of course they're hunters they know what they're doing they don't realize there're a bunch of crazy people out there that
 	
 	
 		some of them are crazy too  whew yeah yeah they go out there and get drunk and start shooting
 	
 	
 		don't use it for that  well yeah that's true  they shoot each other thinking they're a deer  yeah darn i thought you were a deer Bob sorry my mistake
 	
 	
 		yeah Marge i don't know what happened to your husband he just never came back
 	
 	
 		looked like antlers i don't know
 		
 
 		yep that happens a lot too
 	
 	
 		yeah  oh
 	
 	
 		but i guess that's it
 		that's my opinion on it  so what now
 	
 	
 		
 
 		i'm not sure
 	
 	
 		uh
 		uh i think we just hang up yeah okay  thanks bye
 	
 	
 		i let's see
 		yeah yeah we just say good-bye and hang up okay okay okay thanks bye-bye
 		
 		
 	
 
     		
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		have you ever got one of those calls that's either generated by a computer or somebody going down a list and they're either
 		offering a service or
 		they're introducing some new product in the area and
 		normally when they call you're either in the shower or you in the middle of cooking something and you had to stop everything to run to the phone
 	
 	
 		yes yes
 		that is that one that you were talking about
 	
 	
 		that was the big one i'm talking about i work weird hours
 		and invariably just about the time i'm going to sleep the phone tears off the wall
 	
 	
 		uh-huh uh-huh
 	
 	
 		and you're trying to crawl out of a half unconscious sleep and answer the phone you either hear the click as soon as you say hello you hear the click of the recording coming on
 	
 	
 		
 
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		or you hear somebody already starting reading reading off a list of stuff that they've read probably a thousand times that day already
 	
 	
 		that's true or the ones that are are generated by a computer it's just a computer voice that comes on the line those are the ones that i really really hate too
 	
 	
 		even had some of them the
 		they're voice activated and you've got to say hello twice before they'll do anything
 	
 	
 		uh-huh uh-huh yeah sometimes i i get them on my uh answering machine at home so and i hate that when i've got a whole bunch of messages and i go through them and most of them aren't from anybody at all
 	
 	
 		what i would love to see done to stop all of this
 	
 	
 		uh-huh
 	
 	
 		we've got a thing in this country you can have your phone number unlisted
 	
 	
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		i think a law should be passed to where any of these people i think it's great that you know freedom of speech in this country and everything
 		but if they're going to offer these services or these recorded message everything they ought to be stuck working with the phone book like everybody else instead of using a computer to go through and just go down every sequence of numbers for this certain area code and call them
 	
 	
 		um-hum yeah see i have an unlisted telephone number but i still get all of those calls and then some of them are speaking in a foreign language that i don't even understand
 		so yeah i do i really feel that that's uh an invasion of my privacy
 		i agree with you on that particular subject there
 		let me see
 	
 	
 		that's about that as far as any other everyday occurrences
 		i put a stop to some of them as far as the door-to-door either religious groups or people
 	
 	
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		peddling products if i wanted their products i would've either gone to the store to bought it or i would've called for their salesman salesman to come out
 	
 	
 		um-hum um-hum
 		yeah that's true living in an apartment complex though you know you can't um you can't really stop those people from coming around even though they put up signs out front that says no solicitations
 		uh but they still come up to the front door and uh you know walk around so usually what i do is i'll call the apartment manager and tell him hey there's people coming around you know and they're trying to sell something or or they're from a religious organization
 		and i really hate that i really really do i had somebody come to the door about two weeks ago
 		and um gosh it was about nine o'clock at night too it wasn't even what i would consider you know a family hour it's time to you know start going to bed and uh and it was somebody from um oh what was it the uh Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints
 		and uh i've read a lot about uh that particular sect and i don't particularly care for it so i especially don't like for them to come up to my door and try and talk to me
 	
 	
 		now i agree with their right to um
 		pursue their religion of choice in that whatever manner they want to but i think they also should respect the sanctity of the American home whether it be in a house or in an apartment
 	
 	
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		i'm on my turf if i want them there i'll call for them otherwise i don't want to know they exist
 	
 	
 		right
 		yeah yeah no i i agree with you there though i mean they want to choose that particular religion then that's fine with me too you know as long as they don't try and pull me in and drag me in and and i don't like the way that they do it either
 		and and it's their mission as they do as they go door-to-door and they go out into the public and they actually have the uh teenagers serving two years like you would say like in an army and two years in going around and doing missionary type work
 		and i don't know i just um i just don't particularly care for that at all and that that's one thing that i feel really strongly about though is uh you know people coming up to my door especially religious organizations
 		and wanting to uh you know to try and get me to join or you know become interested in their religion because i have my own
 	
 	
 		now the part about where you said the apartment complex puts up signs that says no soliciting i've even gone so far as to put that i've got a storm door on the front of the house and i've put in
 		i don't know how much clearer it can be it's a red sign with silver letters saying no soliciting i should have guessed i guess i should make another one that says religious or otherwise because i still get
 	
 	
 		yeah yeah that's true yeah no i don't uh i don't have i didn't go that far but uh yeah i probably could do the same thing uh you know i don't have a storm door but i'm sure i could rig up something
 		but you know i don't think that that would stop people i mean it's like they they see that word and it says uh go
 		instead of stop
 		oh goodness
 	
 	
 		wonder if there'd be some way we could get these people that do this get their names their addresses and their phone numbers and then reverse it and do well that would be technically illegal it'd be harassment
 	
 	
 		
 
 		oh gosh
 	
 	
 		but i consider invasion of my privacy
 	
 	
 		yeah yeah
 	
 	
 		a harassment in itself
 	
 	
 		yeah yeah yeah that's true that's true
 		hm well what else
 	
 	
 		i believe we've pretty much summed everything up
 	
 	
 		i know but i remember you you talked about something you started off and you said well let me think
 		you talked about the telephone calls people coming and soliciting selling things at the door you said something else
 		and i can't remember what it was
 		and i thought yeah that that kind of touched a nerve right there but we got uh we got to talking about the um uh people coming to you at the front door
 	
 	
 		i'm drawing the blank
 	
 	
 		
 
 		oh goodness okay is our five minutes up
 	
 	
 		uh pretty close to it well i've enjoyed talking with you
 	
 	
 		pretty close
 		well it was nice talking to you too Jim
 	
 	
 		and take it easy now good night
 	
 	
 		okay thanks bye
 	
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		
 
 		
 		
 	
 
     		
 	
 		all right Amy how are you doing today
 	
 	
 		fine fine
 	
 	
 		oh all righty i think we know what we're going to speak about um tell you what i'll start off how's that
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		okay you go ahead
 	
 	
 		um i personally think to set a mark with the judicial system and we're talking about criminals criminal cases that they should bring back
 	
 	
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		
 
 		hangings on weekends
 	
 	
 		in public places
 	
 	
 		in public places there is one state that does that by the way
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		really what is that
 	
 	
 		i want to say Oklahoma i saw report something the other night about it
 	
 	
 		hm
 	
 	
 		they don't do them real often which is obviously the death penalty
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		um but i think if we quit uh building these Taj Mahals with the color TVs
 		and sixty dollars sixty thousand a year to keep an inmate in there on a on a on a life sentence we should start hanging them and get it over with and let's just screwing up the system uh
 	
 	
 		yeah well the sentences are so unbelievable i just saw on the news last night that they said the average time a sentenced murderer you know is in jail is two years before he's paroled and a rapists is like six months and a burglar is like two months
 	
 	
 		that's pathetic
 		that's pathetic it's
 	
 	
 		because they just say there's either no room in the system you know in the jails for them or
 		you know it's just that it seems like the automatic sentences if if a judge has leeway on what he's going to you know sentence someone for between you know two months and uh fifty years and you know what's his whim to decide it should be two months
 	
 	
 		this is true and and and and and the way the law reads uh if they sentence you to
 	
 	
 		you know it's crazy
 	
 	
 		life in prison then he's available for parole if it's if it's life and a day then he's not eligible for parole so what you know let's quit BSing with the system
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		well even if it's life like you say we end up spending sixty thousand dollars a year to keep some you know joker in there for life we could spend that money you know for starving children that are starving or twelve million other things would be more useful than that
 	
 	
 		exactly
 	
 	
 		so to me if somebody has life you know beyond a reasonable doubt they should that should be it you know particularly for some of these really
 	
 	
 		a life for a life
 	
 	
 		i mean there are so many just major major serial murders and it's not just like one instance or something it's just uh horrifying some of the murders that go on
 	
 	
 		the old Charles Manson case i mean the guy is really
 	
 	
 		yeah and the yeah there's just everyday you hear on the news of another one like that um
 	
 	
 		
 
 		just shouldn't be allowed to to even even live uh about the issue about sentencing by the judge
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		the the judge presently has an opportunity to intervene
 		uh when there's uh my understanding when there's uh a verdict and it for example there's a hung jury here in Fort Worth two day in eight to four and bam bam the guy got off
 		uh he was uh he he was a veterinarian and killed two a father and a son okay
 	
 	
 		right yeah i heard about that on the news yeah
 	
 	
 		um kind of gets back to the second request we've been asked to look at is most criminal cases requiring an ananimous verdict the a situation like that i'd say no let's just go like a regular vote eight to four tells me that there were eight
 		there's a percentage certain percentage of the people there with sixty percent of the people uh seventy percent of the people said hey
 	
 	
 		right rather than have to retrial the whole whole thing and spend all the money for people to you know go back to court and all the lawyers and i mean it just winds up costing the taxpayers a fortune you know a fortune to keep doing that
 	
 	
 		the guy's guilty
 		exactly
 	
 	
 		and the victims you know the family of these people that have been murdered they just have to have it dragged on for years and years before they ever get any resolution
 	
 	
 		exactly because it's not next day they have the start the trial which is X number of months and just prolongs the situation that much more
 	
 	
 		right
 		yeah yeah
 	
 	
 		i think that that if it's if it's not a split decision uh go with the highest number and let's just get on with the program
 	
 	
 		yeah yeah
 	
 	
 		uh but as far as the sentencing by the judge i would have to vote against that since there's a jury because that's what the juries are for is to make the decision um what are your feelings
 	
 	
 		yeah yeah
 		well if i i saw on one of the talk shows this woman judge i believe from Florida and she just has just really stiff penalties and i saw that in in the hands of a judge that really was conscientious and really
 		you know took the pains to give a sentence for what was deserved it could you could have a a judge that would really make a good impact but likewise you could have the flip side
 		and have some judge that was paid off or you know had good a good old boy network or for whatever reasons you know politics just let all kinds of people through so he he would have a heck or she would have a heck of a lot of power
 		you know if used wrongly so at least the jury system does something to prevent that you know or help it with it anyway i don't know if it prevents it but  seems like the jury system does have it's advantages
 		but i also i've also heard on trials that sometimes they go through like three hundred jurors before they hand pick these jurors that they think are going to be the ones that are going to be the most lenient you know
 		and i don't know how much they're getting just a jury of their peers at that point they're really getting a select group it's not just random people
 	
 	
 		hm
 	
 	
 		it almost should be the first twelve people that they you know that have on a list are the ones that are on the jury and that's it
 	
 	
 		yeah yeah i get back to Price's comment when he uh was found guilty he said well he didn't have any blacks uh you know from his neck of the woods well give me a break you know
 	
 	
 		you know
 		
 
 		he'd have to have his whole family up there for him to feel like he's got his peers or something yeah
 	
 	
 		exactly
 		yeah yeah i mean you're you're in Dallas so everybody i can't believe they can uh like in a murder situations they look for juries who don't know anything about the system well or know anything about the the occurrence you'd have to be pretty dense
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		you'd be in have to be in a cave not to know what's going on or moving it to Lubbock or somewhere possibly is not the answer
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		oh they'd have to move it to Taiwan for people not to know about it practically
 	
 	
 		this is true so true well this has been an interesting conversation
 	
 	
 		yeah yeah
 		well really this is breaks up my afternoon from changing diapers and mopping floors i mean what can i say no i'm at home with two little kids preschoolers  my husband works for TI
 	
 	
 		oh so you're at the house you're not at the plant
 		oh hold it
 		oh that's good that's good i thought i heard a holler there in the background but i wasn't sure
 	
 	
 		so yeah
 		oh yeah i've got the dog and two kids waiting here i am locked up in the laundry room  okay thanks a lot bye-bye
 	
 	
 		oh goodness well i'll let you get i enjoyed it bye
 	
 	
 		
 
 		
 		
 	
 
     		
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		okay Ellen what kind of a car do you think you're going to buy
 	
 	
 		well as a matter of fact i was thinking about that the other day and uh
 		i really don't know the answer um
 	
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		i would sort of like to uh think about something in the way of uh uh sort of a sporty car but not any not you know a luxury type
 		sporty one but um
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		something that still has a lots of amenities and you know gadgets and things
 	
 	
 		oh you do want a lot of that stuff
 	
 	
 		
 
 		yeah well yeah i like i like some of those things they come in really handy
 	
 	
 		what kind of uh
 		things are you going to consider you know what uh you said something about the about the
 		well what do you call them you said amenities
 	
 	
 		amenities
 	
 	
 		that they have but what about um their reputation of the company or the price
 	
 	
 		um well of course i guess uh price is always the big consideration
 		but
 	
 	
 		it is for me other people don't seem to have the same problem
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		
 
 		well that's that's a big one in my book but uh um
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		i have preferences for uh for some um makers over others
 		um and i would sort of like to buy American
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		but you know i'm not so totally hung up on that that i wouldn't buy something else how about you
 	
 	
 		well um the last car we bought was American because of because of that reason but have not been entirely happy with um
 		several things about the car it doesn't seem like the quality is quite as high as i expected it to be
 	
 	
 		oh really
 	
 	
 		because several things minor things sort of but still they cost us money um that we didn't feel like we should have had to pay on a car that that was that new
 	
 	
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		you know we bought the car new and after  um well well well under two years we had to replace the clutch
 	
 	
 		oh
 	
 	
 		and they just said well you know clutches are disposable and i said since when
 		brake pads are disposable you know we know that but i never thought a clutch was disposable
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		yeah
 		yeah i wouldn't have thought so either
 	
 	
 		yeah so that was that was kind of a shock
 	
 	
 		oh
 	
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		oh yeah i i guess there's a lot to to think about when you're trying to make that decision
 	
 	
 		yeah you know the less actually the less you spend on a car it seems like luxury cars they're called luxury cars even though they're much more expensive like like uh
 		um a Mercedes Benz they don't have the history of breaking down or things like that that would go wrong would definitely not be considered disposable
 	
 	
 		right
 	
 	
 		you would never think of having to replace the clutch in a Mercedes
 	
 	
 		no but then um
 	
 	
 		especially not after two years
 	
 	
 		no but on the other hand i guess too uh whenever you do have to have some major work done on one of those it costs a fortune
 	
 	
 		really oh i don't know
 	
 	
 		
 
 		yeah i've uh worked with a couple of people who have owned uh various years uh Mercedes and
 	
 	
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		even though they do a lot of the work themselves then just buying the parts and everything is is pretty expensive but for them it's it's sort of a hobby too to own them
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		what kind of what brand of car are you thinking about buying or like what things are you looking at
 	
 	
 		well i haven't really really gotten that far with it um i've always sort of liked General Motors a little bit better than some of the others but uh
 	
 	
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		oh i guess i really don't know
 	
 	
 		how come  i've been kind of um
 		i guess the commercials are getting to me the Toyota commercials and i know that a lot of people i've i've known that have had Toyotas have been just extremely happy with them that hardly had any problems at all
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		yeah that i think that's
 	
 	
 		i think they have a really good um quality
 	
 	
 		um-hum my uh daughter has owned two different ones and uh
 		you know we've had some work done on them but it's not too bad and the reason one of the reasons we um
 		bought the first one was because a friend of ours had a Toyota that he just really drove for years and years and years and he lived way out in the country so he put a lot of miles on it
 	
 	
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		and you knew it had had been through a whole lot
 	
 	
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		and yet you know it it held up pretty doggone good so
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		i thought they would
 	
 	
 		they seem to be really durable
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		so i don't know i'm i'm not ready to buy a new car yet but i don't know if if the next time i'm going to try to
 		to stay with buying something American or if i'm going to go for a little more
 		what i would consider to be a long-term investment
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		well and i guess you know you always have to think about things like your gas mileage and stuff like that you know you
 	
 	
 		oh it's easy to get gas mileage in this car it gets excellent gas mileage
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		yeah that's one of the big throwing cards for
 		some of the foreign ones
 	
 	
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		well
 		we talked long enough
 	
 	
 		i think so
 	
 	
 		okay well enjoyed it bye-bye
 	
 	
 		
 
 		all righty thanks bye-bye
 	
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		
 
 		
 		
 	
 
     		
 	
 		here goes Sharon
 	
 	
 		okay
 	
 	
 		well  what do you think about Nolan Ryan being the first baseball player to earn a million dollars
 		that's the only thing i found out tonight
 	
 	
 		oh you found that out tonight i hadn't even heard that that's great i think he deserves every penny of it
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		but there are some others out there that i don't believe deserve the money they're getting
 	
 	
 		well isn't it funny how baseball's getting less than like football players would
 	
 	
 		oh yeah
 	
 	
 		wonder because football
 	
 	
 		and they play a lot they play a lot longer season too
 	
 	
 		and a lot more games right
 	
 	
 		yep that's exactly right
 	
 	
 		uh-huh
 	
 	
 		but i think let's see the teams that were there last year were
 		see somebody from California i don't even know who won the pennant last year
 	
 	
 		beats me i mean i know Yankees have won a lot of games through the years
 	
 	
 		yeah  not lately though
 	
 	
 		we have been talking about this i tried to call earlier
 	
 	
 		uh-huh
 	
 	
 		and we had made a list of all these uh baseball teams and the cities that they were from then i started cleaning and i don't know where i even put that paper i yeah i was just cleaning and throwing
 	
 	
 		threw it away  oh gosh let's see the teams that  i think the A's were in it last year the Oakland A's and i think it was
 		i don't think it was an all California baseball
 	
 	
 		well have you ever played baseball
 	
 	
 		i play softball
 	
 	
 		well that's what i did when i was growing up
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		that was fun
 	
 	
 		yeah that's fun  that's a whole different sport
 	
 	
 		uh-huh
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		let's see but i think i think the Rangers need to go and i think the Pirates will go
 		and uh
 		let's see
 		Rangers have got a new guy this year i don't remember his name either
 	
 	
 		do you ever go see the Rangers
 	
 	
 		every once in a while i i like to go on the nights when there's not anybody out there not very many people out there it's a lot more fun when you're not fighting a crowd
 	
 	
 		yeah i think it's fun i like just looking at the billboards
 	
 	
 		yeah but sometimes when i if you go out there during the day you just fry under the sun
 	
 	
 		
 
 		yeah it's nice at night
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		that's when i've been
 	
 	
 		it is
 	
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		and and do you know anything about that new stadium have you seen all those pictures that they're going to put out there
 	
 	
 		well
 		no
 	
 	
 		yeah that that huge it's suppose to be a huge stadium and it's going to have little shopping centers in it and little like a lake or something running through it and uh they're going to try to make it a real community center out there
 	
 	
 		and you're going to be able to buy your what was no wait
 	
 	
 		of course
 	
 	
 		what was it about the liquor
 	
 	
 		that's that's in uh Texas stadium where the football players play
 	
 	
 		was that
 		
 
 		oh yeah see you just
 	
 	
 		and they're never going to let liquor in there
 	
 	
 		well they're trying
 	
 	
 		i know but they try every year and every year they get thrown out
 		it's so stupid because they let you take it in there but they don't they don't allow you to sell it don't allow them to sell it there
 	
 	
 		uh-huh
 	
 	
 		but uh that new stadium's going to be real nice and i heard that there's uh
 		that you can bid on that stadium last night on the news i heard they said you could you could bid on the stadium to have it named after you
 	
 	
 		kind of right
 	
 	
 		it's going to it's going to go to the highest bidder
 	
 	
 		oh
 	
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		well that's the way to do it
 	
 	
 		so
 		yeah so that could be your you know fifteen minutes of fame
 	
 	
 		you hear that that's my kids turning on their music let me see  Holly turn it down
 	
 	
 		oh
 	
 	
 		i think it's the Bartman the Simpsons
 	
 	
 		oh God  i stay away from them
 	
 	
 		
 
 		i wish i could
 	
 	
 		i bet you do
 	
 	
 		yeah well where are you
 	
 	
 		in Plano
 	
 	
 		okay i'm in Garland
 	
 	
 		oh you are
 	
 	
 		yeah my husband my husband teaches in Plano
 	
 	
 		oh what's he teach
 	
 	
 		C V A E
 	
 	
 		uh-huh
 		so what do you do
 	
 	
 		i teach but i teach for Dallas
 	
 	
 		oh you do
 	
 	
 		for right now i'm trying to get out
 	
 	
 		is that a tough system to be in
 	
 	
 		uh-huh
 	
 	
 		real hard
 	
 	
 		uh-huh i mean it's good because they they try new things you know but it's like
 	
 	
 		yeah i would think it
 	
 	
 		they'll try something and then they throw it out and get something else you know and you get tired of that
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		that's typical bureaucracy though that's that's i think it's going to be any where you go it's just worse in the bigger cities than it is in the smaller ones i don't know sometimes the smaller ones are just as bad
 	
 	
 		
 
 		yeah
 		well but they can't be though they don't have as much money
 	
 	
 		yeah but the politics the politics gets worse in the small towns sometimes
 	
 	
 		most the time
 		oh man but in Dallas you don't even know who's in in administration there's so many of them
 	
 	
 		you don't even know who to payoff huh
 	
 	
 		i mean somebody walks in the classroom and you don't know what they're there for you know when they're coming how long they're going to be
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		oh how funny
 	
 	
 		you know it's just them there they are and they're writing the whole time
 	
 	
 		no communication whatsoever
 	
 	
 		no i had them walk out of my class and not say their name anything and i finally got to where i go okay i'm Debbie Moore you know may i ask who you are and what you are in my classroom for
 	
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		you know because you know you never know where they're going  what they'll report or
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		i know
 	
 	
 		and they'll tell you they've written something down and you
 	
 	
 		and you haven't you and you never see it
 	
 	
 		hope they're telling you
 		
 
 		no huh-uh
 	
 	
 		that's got to be frustrating
 	
 	
 		oh it is
 	
 	
 		how long have you taught taught Dallas schools
 	
 	
 		uh this is my eleventh year
 	
 	
 		ooh that's about uh ten too many
 	
 	
 		no actually it's now my job's
 		good much better than a lot
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		uh-huh
 	
 	
 		because i'm Chapter One and all i do is teach reading all day long
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		oh
 	
 	
 		and it's just ten children at a time
 	
 	
 		well that's not bad
 	
 	
 		no it's good and you've got a lot of federal money too
 	
 	
 		but hasn't it changed a lot over the years
 	
 	
 		teaching  oh yes
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		or working in the system
 	
 	
 		yes when i first started teaching i remember i went up to my job and i said okay i want to see a curriculum guide you know so i'll know what i'm suppose to teach and they go
 		we don't have one of we don't even know where one is
 	
 	
 		
 
 		oh God
 	
 	
 		and  i go okay i mean you just you did what you  wanted to do
 	
 	
 		oh
 		how funny
 	
 	
 		and now they tell you what to teach and how long and
 		you know what day
 	
 	
 		yeah you don't know which is you don't know which is worse
 	
 	
 		what period
 		yeah no i know which is worse
 	
 	
 		yeah i guess so yeah being told what to do is worse
 	
 	
 		
 
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		so how long are we suppose to talk for
 	
 	
 		well you can talk for ten minutes but you don't have to
 	
 	
 		oh you can
 	
 	
 		yeah and no if you talk to ten then they come over on and say oh you've extended your limit and please say good-bye within the next five seconds
 	
 	
 		oh i haven't ever talked that long
 	
 	
 		well you know i hadn't either till last night i was talking to this retired administrator from Cleveland Ohio we started talking about gangs you know
 	
 	
 		oh how funny
 		he lives in Cleveland
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		wow
 	
 	
 		and everybody else that i've talked to has been right around here
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		but she was real interesting
 	
 	
 		huh
 	
 	
 		and then tonight this woman called have you taken any incoming calls
 	
 	
 		the yours is my second one
 	
 	
 		okay so hers was the first one i got
 		gotten and uh
 		oh she was telling me all her problems
 	
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		and it went over ten minutes
 	
 	
 		did she did she did you all not talk about the topic at all
 	
 	
 		well yeah we did but the topic was boring i thought what would you serve uh if you were having a dinner party
 	
 	
 		oh
 		oh gosh
 		
 
 		what was i'm trying to remember oh the other the one i talked about the other night was good it was
 		um about movies you know who what have you seen at the movies lately and stuff like that
 	
 	
 		oh yeah i could go on and on about that
 	
 	
 		me too because we go all the time the guy i was talking to never goes he was boy it sounds like your really up on this and i said i see at least two a week  so
 	
 	
 		ooh neat
 	
 	
 		that was real good to talk about that have you seen like uh Silence Of The Lambs
 	
 	
 		no
 	
 	
 		you've got to go see that
 	
 	
 		the last one i saw was Dances Of The With The Wolves Of The Wolves
 	
 	
 		yeah we talked about that one too and he he said he didn't think it should of gotten all those awards he thought it was too long but
 	
 	
 		oh i enjoyed it i mean it was just more for my money
 	
 	
 		i
 		i did too
 		yeah i didn't think it was too long at all
 		um he said after about the first hour he started looking at his watch
 	
 	
 		huh
 	
 	
 		the other one you need to go see is Sleeping With The Enemy
 	
 	
 		uh-huh
 	
 	
 		and how old are your kids
 	
 	
 		one is eight and one is eleven
 	
 	
 		you probably don't want to take them to see Silence Of The Lambs
 		it's it's not it's not too cool for kids
 	
 	
 		they usually pick their own
 	
 	
 		i bet they do
 	
 	
 		you know they've got it all figured out
 	
 	
 		yeah they want to see all the horror movies
 	
 	
 		well and Ninja Turtles
 	
 	
 		yeah Ninja Turtles got to have those
 	
 	
 		but most of the time really we watch them on the video
 		don't you just massive rental
 	
 	
 		oh yeah you bring that's well heck that's a lot cheaper then uh taking them out to the show
 	
 	
 		going to
 		i know
 	
 	
 		especially if you get them for a couple of nights you don't have to watch them all at one night one time
 	
 	
 		that's what we do especially when it's bad weather man just
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		plug it in
 	
 	
 		of course you have to get there early if you want to get anything
 	
 	
 		i know
 	
 	
 		decent
 		well
 	
 	
 		it's good when you go to Tom Thumb though and they're cheap and nobody's got them yet unbelievable
 	
 	
 		that's true
 		that's true we saw um
 		Heroes Has Always Been Cowboys tonight
 	
 	
 		uh-huh
 	
 	
 		it was okay it was kind of slow and i felt like it kind of got chopped off at the end you know
 		it just it and i don't know it one of those movies it's not going to be around long it'll be a dollar movie in no time
 	
 	
 		do you read
 	
 	
 		not very much no
 	
 	
 		no
 	
 	
 		i don't have the patience to read
 	
 	
 		see i do that to make myself go to sleep at night
 	
 	
 		yeah oh my mom and dad read all the time
 	
 	
 		you saw Field Of the Dreams right a long time ago
 	
 	
 		yeah sure did
 	
 	
 		so i was reading the book and it's called Shoeless Joe
 	
 	
 		oh really
 	
 	
 		it was so wonderful and then i was um i decided well i like this author so i got a uh book of his short stories and that's been real good
 	
 	
 		who's the who's the author
 	
 	
 		don't don't ask me  The Ghost Of Shoeless Joe was the name of the book
 	
 	
 		oh
 		
 
 		Shoeless Joe was it like the movie
 	
 	
 		yes quite a quite a bit but you know in the movie the guy was black
 	
 	
 		okay
 		right
 	
 	
 		he wasn't in the book
 	
 	
 		huh
 	
 	
 		that's one difference
 		there really wasn't a lot of difference
 	
 	
 		i didn't uh see i never even heard that there was a book tied in with that movie
 	
 	
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		that's interesting
 	
 	
 		so
 	
 	
 		that was a good movie too
 	
 	
 		well do you think we've covered baseball
 	
 	
 		i think so
 	
 	
 		okay well have a good night
 		
 		
 	



I can't believe I wrote all that last year.
Acephalous

Friday, 07 May 2010



Because I've been grading all damn day and am as tired as a Swearengen of hearing
other about the finished semesters of pretty much every other academic blogger,
I thought that it might be best to avoid jealously lashing out and scribble a
"Best of Acephalous 2009" post. However, when I started
looking through my archives, it occurred to me that my output this year defines
me much more sharply than in years past. What do I mean? 
The posts I consider foundational to my current professional identity all seem to
have been composed in 2009. Granted, the likelihood that I'm suffering from the
identitarian equivalent of presentism is awfully high, but I honestly thought
I'd written some of the posts from early 2009 in 2006 or so. (It may also be
that I remember the scene of their writing, which would have been in the old
apartment, i.e. the place I barely remember ever having
lived in anymore.) If you have absolutely nothing better to do on a Friday
night, feel free to scan through my 2009
archives and tell me what you think should be included in the "Best of"
post. 
If you do have something better to do, though, by all means do
it . 

Posted at 05:50 PM




Comments


Why is someone so young not having fun with friends on a Friday night.
Granted grading papers is important, but no fun makes for a boring life. I
should know. /since, when I was your age I had fun playing with my adorable
son and caring for another baby. You need to try to have a life outside your
computer. Just saying....it seems I have more life now then you have and we
know how little I get out!
 Posted by: alkau | Saturday, 08 May 2010 at 10:11 AM 


 The one that really stuck in my mind was explaining transitions in the panels of Watchmen . I'd
read Watchmen a short while before and appreciated its narrative complexity,
but not being used to reading comics, hadn't registered all the technical
tricks that the artist was using to achieve this. The post not only taught
me something about the grammar of such images, but more importantly led to
me realising that there is a grammar to look for in the first place. So
thanks a lot for that one.
 Posted by: magistra | Saturday, 08 May 2010 at 03:05 PM


SEK, I started going through your back posts and noticed a pattern in my
selections, so I think it would be easier (for me, because I'm rubbish with
html) to just say all the scene analysis posts and the close reading comics
posts, like the one Magistra mentioned and many others after that. Plus
Justifying Comics as a Legitimate Object of Study Parts I & II. I also
liked "Teaching the Overdetermined Image." Your takedown of Cashill and the
whole Ayers-wrote-Dreams was excellent, and the Cruel_cruel_death post (you
know what I'm talking about, right?).

Also, The Day in Actual Communist and Real Nazi History seems as relevant
today as ever.
 Posted by: Caio | Saturday, 08 May 2010 at 06:49 PM



Agree with the previous two comments. I don't remember if you've made noises
here before about turning these into a book, but if you do you've got at
least one reader.
 Posted by: Martin Wisse | Sunday, 09 May 2010 at 01:19 AM



What happened to your post that appeared in my RSS reader yesterday?
 Posted by: tomemos | Sunday, 09 May 2010 at 09:16 AM




Would it be possible to arrange your posts into three 'parties', and give
your many readers the opportunity to 'vote' for one of them, by 'secret
ballot'? I feel your British readers would appreciate that.
 Posted by: Adam Roberts | Sunday, 09 May 2010 at 10:57 AM 











Wednesday, 19 May 2010

The Internet occasionally reminds me of how different life is because of
it.

I noted on Facebook that, from a statistical perspective, what makes baseball such an
amazing sport is that you can watch it your entire life and still see, on a daily basis,
something youve never seen before. (Its a truism, I know, but it has the benefit of actually
being true.) In this case, the something in question was watching the wonderfully named Angel
Pagan hit an inside-the-park home run and initiate a triple play in the same game. John Emerson responded with some humbug about it
not being an inside-the-park grand slam, which made me remember that I had seen an inside-the-park grand slam at some time in the remote past.
I remember being six or seven years old and watching the Mets play the Cardinals in an
afternoon game at Shea Stadium, and thanks to the miracle of the Internet, I can definitively say that at approximately 4:30
p.m. on 9 June 1985 , I watched Terry Pendleton hit an inside-the-park grand slam off Joe
Sambito in a game the Cardinals would go on to win handily. The fact that I can verify vague
memories of events that occurred twenty-five years ago astounds me in a way I sometimes forget
the Internet is capable of doing.
This realization is obviously not of world-historical importance, merely a reminder that this
thing whose existence we take for granted daily represents a fundamentally weird complement to
human memory. The fact that at some point in the future I can know who I rode in an elevator
with on 28 December 2005 is less weird because I chose to write
about riding in an elevator with Grimace . That I can access detailed information about
events I have no right remembering in detail is another matter entirely.





Joe Sambito. Wow. I'd completely forgotten about him. I sometimes wish I could forget that
Pendelton is the Braves hitting coach. Closest I came to that was watching Dale Murphy get
tagged out at the plate on what would have been an inside-the-park slam.
 Posted by: Chuck | Wednesday, 19 May 2010 at 06:16 PM 


He pitched for the Astros before he came to the Mets, stayed for '85, then he pitched for
the Red Sox against the Mets in '86 World Series. I remember him being ineffective, and as it
turns out, he was . Now that I remember him, which I didn't before, I remember him as
being the pitcher who'd pitched for 1) the team the Mets faced to get to the '86 Series and 2)
the one they faced in it. I didn't remember that I remember that, but now that I do, I do.
Memory, as Gertrude Stein would say, is funny.
Posted by: SEK | Wednesday, 19 May 2010 at 06:27 PM


Apparently the drug use, sexual excess, and weird UCI experiences haven't softened your
brain yet.

What's really bothersome, though, is when you only remember things from your distant
past. 

My grandpa was alert till the end, but when I last saw him at age 92 everything he wanted to
talk about was 70 years in the past.

Posted by: John Emerson | Wednesday, 19 May 2010 at 07:02 PM


A guess, but perhaps your grandfather's life at 22 was more interesting than the ensuing 70
yrs. 

 Posted by: M. Bouffant | Wednesday, 19 May 2010 at 08:54 PM


You know what makes this post great? No stinking cricket.
 Posted by: tomemos | Wednesday, 19 May 2010 at 09:04 PM 



Yeah, I remember Sambito from the Astros (when the Braves were in the old NL West because it
made sense to have a team 3,000 miles from most of their division rivals). Solid pitcher for a
while. But burned out toward the end. Apparently, he is a player's representative now.
 Posted by: Chuck | Thursday, 20 May 2010 at 12:14 PM 

 >Prosthetic memory. Posted by: Endy | Thursday, 20 May 2010 at
02:35 PM 



I like to read about others watching baseball more than I like to watch baseball by a factor
of nine. Having given up on watching the actual sport, mention of baseball now only sparks
memories of The Old Man and the Sea and the old time baseball writers. It is true that at the
end of time, the old time baseball writers will be hailed as the very best writers, as they
had access to an event that was susceptible to beautiful writing, but horrendous to watch in
person. Plus, they smoked a prodigious quantity of cigarettes. 

nota bene: An overdue library book is a crime against Humanities. 
 Posted by: THE LIBRARY | Friday, 21 May 2010 at 11:17 PM









The Anti-Terrorist - Undermining The Motivation For Terrorism

 By Rev. Bill McGinnis , Director - LoveAllPeople.org

 This website and everything on it is in the Public Domain, so you may use it freely, even
without attribution. 




BACKGROUND , September 11, 2004
 Three years have now gone by since the September 11th attacks in 2001, and terrorism is a far
greater threat to us now than it was then. The number and severity of terrorist attacks
worldwide has increased dramatically, as has the number of active terrorists. Before 9/11,
terrorism was confined to a small number of extremist individuals, loosely linked by radical
Islam and hatred of Israel and its sole supporter, the USA. Now, many more moderate Muslims have
become radicalized, world-wide, willing to kill innocent civilians in order to achieve their
purposes. And the serious targets have expanded to include civilians in Russia, India, Maylasia,
the Philippines, Spain, and elsewhere, as well as Israel and its sole supporter, the United
States. True, the USA has not suffered a successful major attack since 9/11, but this does
not mean that we are safer. The terrorists could strike any time they choose, through any of
the numerous loopholes so well reported in our media. But they have chosen not to attack,
perhaps because they are waiting to produce an effect even greater than the 9/11 attacks, so
they do not appear to be losing strength. What could be more spectacular than the 9/11 attacks?
Nuclear! Or massive bio-chemical attack! And I think this is what they are waiting for. All of
our frantic preparations may have had some effect in preventing small-time casual attacks, but
they cannot stop a serious planned attack, any more than a mere door lock can stop a serious
robber who really wants to get into your house.  So the Bush administration can keep
claiming that we are safer now, under their policies. But this claim is merely feel-good
propaganda, intended to keep the neo-cons in power. It cannot withstand clear-headed scrutiny.
The fact is, Bush policies have failed completely even to diminish terrorism, much less defeat
it. By trying to "stamp out" terrorism by killing terrorists, Bush and Israel have made things
infinitely worse for us: more dangerous, not safer. And proof that Bush has failed may come at
any moment, explosively, with one big successful attack here in the USA.  May God help
us all. 
WHAT IS TERRORISM?
 TERRORISM is "the systematic use of violence to create a general climate of fear in a
population and thereby to bring about a particular political objective." Source: Britannica.com
http://www.britannica.com/search?query=terrorism&ct=  We believe that any terrorist act
is a crime against humanity and against the will of God, because it deliberately intends to
injure and kill innocent people. 

NEUTRALIZING TERRORISM
 Our purpose here is to NEUTRALIZE TERRORISM by removing the motivation for it. Without
motivation, terrorism will quickly die down, like a plant without water. 
 We completely reject the idea that terrorism can be defeated by brute force, because brute
force radicalizes the moderates, and they then join the terrorists. So you end up fighting the
entire population. Brute force has failed in Palestine, and it is failing in Iraq. 
 We try to be even-handed in opposing all terrorism, although we recognize that the greatest
terrorist threat in the world today comes from radical Muslims who falsely believe that Allah
approves of their criminal behavior against Israel, The United States, Russia, India, the
Philippines, Australia, and others whom they falsely believe to be "waging war against Allah."
And the second-greatest terrorist threat comes from several countries, mainly Israel, who
sometimes resort to terrorism themselves, claiming "self-defense," as they desperately try to
prevent further attacks by radical Muslims. In all of these cases above, if the radical Muslims
would cease their attacks, all terrorism on both sides of every dispute would quickly end. 
 Beyond these two sources, there is virtually no terrorist activity in the world, with the
possible exception of localized disputes such as in Northern Ireland and occasional domestic
episodes in various places involving isolated disaffected groups. 

The moral and religious theories which support terrorism are quite faulty and
erroneous. They need to be identified and attacked. If the terrorist loses faith in the
righteousness of his acts, he is less likely to perform them. 


EXAMPLE 1: "Terrorists
Offend Allah."


EXAMPLE 2: "Terrorist
Murderers Insult Allah, Bring Shame To Islam"


EXAMPLE 3 (LATEST AND BEST!
- Framed Below): "Qur'an Forbids Terrorism"


In every case of terrorism, we will find some kind of legitimate underlying
grievance. If we eliminate the legitimate grievances, we have eliminated much of the
motivation. 
 Is this "negotiating with terrorists" or "trying to appease the terrorists," as some
Israeli/NeoCons would try to say? No. It is simply recognizing the realities of human
motivation, right or wrong. To deny reality, as the Israeli/NeoCons do, is to invite disaster,
as they have done. 

BIG PICTURE

A big picture of our entire Anti-Terrorism strategy can be found at our website
=> http://www.loveallpeople.org/defeatingterrorism.html . 



 Blessings to you. May God help us all. 

Blessings to you. May God help us all. 

 Rev. Bill McGinnis, Director - LoveAllPeople.org



   
      
         Jet Lag: Pathophysiology and Cures
         The longest Monday of my life
         
I recently returned to the US from Australia. The 14-hour flight took me from Monday morning in Sydney to Monday
morning, again, in L.A. Crossing the date line messed up my sense of time enough without the added bonus of thinking I
should be heading to bed just as the sun began to climb into the California sky.

You may be familiar with the concept: Jet lag. The catch-all name for circadian misalignment, the disruption of sleep
cycles and circadian rhythms. If you've had the pleasure of crossing time zones in a jet plane, whether it was a mere
three-hour hop from one coast of the US to the other or a trip to another continent, chances are, you've experienced
some amount of jet lag. 

The pathophysiology of jet lag

Normally, two systems--the homeostatic system and the circadian system--work together to produce a 24-hour sleep
cycle. During the day, the homeostatic system slowly accumulates a 'sleep drive,' a desire to sleep that increases as a
function of time spent awake. The circadian system generates an alerting signal in opposition to this sleep drive,
which, during the day, keeps a person from feeling increasingly sleepy. An hour or two before bedtime, this signal
subsides, and s/he realizes it's time to hit the pillow. The sleep drive dissipates as a person sleeps and by morning
(assuming a full night's rest and possibly some coffee), s/he will be feeling alert and ready to go again.

Robert Sack wrote a delightful paper [PDF] on jet lag, by the way, which is
where I'm getting much of my information. 

So we've got a nice cycle of sleep. Jet lag is what happens when the homeostatic and circadian processes are
misaligned. For example, the circadian system may signal a person to be alert when it's not actually morning, or may be
reduced during daytime hours, causing daytime sleepiness because the homeostatic sleep drive is no longer cancelled
out. 

But I don't want to be sleepy!

How do you beat jet lag? Robert Sack lists three primary approaches: 


Reset the body clock
Prescribed sleep scheduling
Medication to counteract daytime sleepiness or insomnia



Let's start with the first one, as it turns out to be the most complicated. 

Resetting the body clock

The two most effective ways to reset the body clock are 1) through bright light exposure, and 2) timed melatonin
administration. 

Light is one of the most important cues about time of day and has the greatest effect on circadian timing (much
smaller effects are seen from regular activities and meals, for example). Studies have shown that without light cues,
totally blind people tend to have free-running circadian
rhythms with an average period of 24.5 hours, instead of the usual 24. If a person is exposed to bright light early in
the day, the person's internal clock is reset to an earlier time; if exposure is instead in the evening, the internal
clock is reset to a later time. Brighter light has more of an effect (such as the sun, at 3000 to 10,000 lux), though
lower intensities (e.g., 100-550 lux) can produce changes.

Artificial light sources can be used to supplement daylight, to help reset a person's internal clock to the correct
new time zone when traveling. Alternatively, a person could wear very dark glasses, as light avoidance could help
minimize the problems of light exposure at the wrong time of day or night. 

Resetting the body clock, Part 2: Melatonin

Melatonin is a hormone that has been linked to the regulation of circadian rhythms and sleep cycles
[PDF]. Melatonin is secreted by the pineal gland at night; secretion is suppressed by light exposure, and as such, the
hormone can be thought of as a "darkness signal." If doses of melatonin are administered in the morning, circadian
rhythms will be shifted later; evening doses shift rhythms earlier. Timing of the doses is more important than amount
per dose, though it remains to be seen what the optimal dose and optimal time of administration is--trials have been
done with doses from 0.5 to 10mg, at times ranging from three days before departure to five days after arrival in the
new time zone.

If doses of melatonin are combined with light exposure, the results are what you might expect: synergistic if both
are administered to produce a time shift in the same direction (both earlier or both later); antagonistic otherwise.

Sleep, wake, sleep, wake

The second way to beat jet lag: Sleep at weird times. Slowly adjust your sleep schedule to match that of your
destination, or keep your home sleep schedule for a while after you arrive. The problem with this is that your
sleep-wake schedule won't match up with that of the people around you, and if you need to be awake for breakfast at 7am
or for a meeting in the afternoon, your sleep schedule may interfere. Use this method at your own risk. 

Drugs for everything

Lastly, we have sleep medicines. As you might guess, hypnotic medications combat insomnia and stimulants fight off
daytime sleepiness pretty well, because by definition, that's what they do. Both benzodiazepine and non-benzodiazepine
drugs have been shown to be effective in the first case; for the latter, the most common solution is to consume more coffee [PDF]. This works! In the study
linked, subjects were treated with slow-release caffeine or with melatonin prior to a long eastward flight; the caffeine
subjects were less sleepy than either melatonin or placebo. Granted, caffeine subjects also took longer to fall asleep
later and awoke more frequently, but that may be a risk you have to take.  

Lagging behind

Light, melatonin, drugs, strange sleep schedules. Of course, the only solution that will always work is time. The
homeostatic and circadian processes need to realign, and while the aforementioned ways of beating jet lag can fast track
the process, it still takes time. 

UPDATE: ; I was alerted by a friend of the existence further research of which I was
unaware: Another way to reset your sleep-wake cycle is to stop eating . If you fast for about 12 to 16 hours, your body clock will reset, with whatever time
you break your fast as morning. The  Fuller, Lu, & Saper paper
[PDF], published in Science , discusses the mechanism, though a more recent paper argues that the Fuller et al. results are inconclusive .
      
   

   
      
          Tibetan Buddhist Retreat

         
Faded squares of fabric, strung together in repeating blue-white-red-green-yellow chains, crisscross the branches of
bare-limbed trees. The gentle wind makes them flutter. Orange-gold light filters into the grassy meadow, touching a row
of canvas tents and the temple house beyond. Tsechen Kunchab Ling : Temple of All-Encompassing Great Compassion. This is the seat of His Holiness
the Sakya Trizin in the United States, a Tibetan Buddhist monastery established nine years ago.

I spent the past weekend there. The field work office at my college arranges this retreat every semester. Everyone
I've talked to who has previously attended says wonderful things about it; this semester, one of my friends told me she
was going: I should join her! I like learning new things, so I signed up. A good decision: I didn't return all chill and
zen, as one friend told me his roommate had, but I certainly gained a few new ideas and approaches to mull over, and
dipped my hand into a previously unfamiliar piece of the world.

Medicine for one's mind

The first evening, the twenty-something students--most from my college, four from another--gathered in the shrine
room, sitting cross-legged on cushions as we listened to Khenpo Kalsang introduce Tibetan Buddhist philosophy. He began
by telling us, "Do not take any of what I say on faith. Take it through analysis, if there is some benefit in it for
you." Religion, he said, is like a drugstore full of medicine. You do not go to the drugstore and buy everything in
it--you just buy what would be beneficial to you now. You believe the other medicine may have just as much value, but in
other situations, not this one.

We discussed the foundations: the Three Turnings of the Wheel of Dharma; the four noble truths; karma; defilements;
the six perfections. When we talked about the giving, and how one should try to give what one could to other sentient
beings (in the form of material items, kind words, protection, and so on), Khenpo Kalsang shared a story of the Buddha,
and how the Buddha had given his flesh so that a family of hungry tigers could eat. "So," a fellow student asked,
"Giving one's life for another being is the ultimate gift?"

Khenpo Kalsang, he smiled, and shook his head. "Only if you feel no regret," he said. "If you feel regret, it
destroys the merit." Until then, preserve your own life, and do not give away anything that would cause you regret. This
struck a chord. Self-preservation above all else, unless the right situation arises.

Knowing and understanding

Later, I talked to the resident nun, Ani Kunga, about psychology and cognitive science. She had studied psychology
for a while in grad school, but now holds the view that psychologists are going about understanding the mind and
understanding the knower and what knowing is the wrong way. "Psychologists," she said, "study the brain and the self
externally. Ever since the 1920s, their science has been about observation of behavior, questionnaires, recordings of
electrical brain activity. But the mind can only be known by you, the person whose mind it is." She said
philosophy and epistemology were doing it right: looking at experiences from the inside.

A big overlap exists between Tibetan Buddhism, psychology and cognitive science. All three examine the distinction
between the self and others, between the observer and the observed, between knowing and the knower. I agree with Ani
Kunga to some extent--only so much can be known about the mind from external observation. But this doesn't mean that
there isn't merit to such studies, nor that nothing of use can be learned in that way.

Tibetan Buddhist philosophy also approaches the mind and the self from the inside. During a second philsophy session,
Khenpo Kalsang translated a sutra about a king who received advice from the Buddha. This sutra delved into some
questions about the nature of the self, whether the self is a delusion, and how the clinging of self is a defilement. I
intend to discuss it in more depth later, so stay tuned.

Compassion training and prayer flags

In the afternoon, a group of us gathered outside for a meditation session with Ani Kunga. Sunshine melted lazily
through the tree branches above, a breeze animating the branches' shadows so they danced between our cushions.
Compassion and anger were the session's topics. The key message: 

"If there's something you can do, why are you unhappy? Just do it. If there's nothing you can do, why are you
unhappy?"

Ani Kunga explained several off-session and one on-session technique for dealing with negative emotions (anger, hate,
irritation, stress, jealousy, and so on). All the methods built off the idea that you are in control: anger is an
emotion, and you can change your emotions. Stay tuned for a more in-depth post on the topic.

Another of the day's activities was making prayer flags. As Ani Kunga explained, "Prayers, wishes, hopes,
aspirations--someone, many people, may share those with you. Hanging the prayer flag shares your prayer with everyone
else in the world. This may do no good at all, but it may--if everyone hopes and wishes and dreams and aspires, perhaps
it will do good. It may not. But if no one shares their prayers, it will certainly do no good.
So on the offchance that it will help, why not?"

Never done

This weekend reminded me that I'm not done learning. If I stay still long enough, if I've achieved a relatively
constant level of happiness and satisfaction, I forget that I can and should continue to seek out new ideas and
approaches, and incorporate beneficial ones into my life. A person is never "done," and so, I'll continue to observe and
discuss and study, trying to pick the directions in which I'll change, and trying to make tomorrow better than
today.

Ever onward and ever upward.
      
   

   
      
         Self-control, Self-efficacy, and New Year's Resolutions
         Unresolved
         
I'm not one to make New Year's resolutions.

I mean, sure, I could take my pick of popular New Year's resolutions ; I could decide, on the
first day of the new year, that this year, I'll start exercising more and eating better, or that I'll spend more time
with my family and friends, or that I'll learn a new skill. And if I chose to make resolutions, I'd be far from alone--a
2008 survey on Dorthy.com found that 66% of the 2000+ adults polled
had made resolutions at some point (though only 17% managed to keep them).

Making resolutions: It's about self-control

The question Anirban Mukhopadhyay of the Hong Kong University and Gita Venkatarmani Johar of the Graduate School of
Business at Columbia University asked is this: What determines how many goals a person will set, and
how successful a person will be at achieving those goals? They performed a few studies in 2005 to look at the
relationship between self-control, goal setting, and goal achievement. They suggested that what you believe about self-control affects the
goals you set and achieve [PDF].

In the paper, "self-control" is used to mean a sense of willpower. Mukhopadhyay & Venkatarmani discuss various
lay theories of self-control, noting that the amount of self-control a person has can be seen as either an inherently
limited or unlimited resource, and that this resource can be seen either as malleable or as fixed (the amount of
self-control a person has can change over time, or not). An important premise to note here is the idea that the
probability of choosing a goal or making a resolution increases if a person thinks that goal can be attained. So if you
think you'll be able to achieve a goal, you're more likely to set it. Combine this with theories of self-control, and in
general, if you believe you have unlimited stores of self-control, you'll set a larger number of goals. If you believe
self-control is malleable but limited, you'll set fewer goals.

Mukhopadhyay & Venkatarmani also discuss self-efficacy: belief in one's capabilities, the perceived ability to
carry out a desired action. They propose that people with high self-efficacy--people who believe that failure is the
result of insufficient effort, and thus exhibit increased commitment and persistence--will achieve more of their goals
than people with low self-efficacy, who tend to view failure as the result of deficient ability, and thus may simply
give up.

The studies

In the first study, 85 participants (all college students) each read one of four passages presenting lay theories of
self-control. Each passage contained two paragraphs; the first discussed self-control either as limited or as unlimited,
and the second discussed self-control as either malleable or fixed. The participants then answered questions about their
belief in each of two theories presented, followed by a second questionnaire to assess motivation, in which they listed
all their current goals.

The study was testing whether a belief in unlimited, malleable self-control would result in most resolutions, and
indeed, this is what was found. The experimenters had some concerns about participants' natural beliefs in relation to
the passages they read, however, so in study two, the order of the two measures (lay theories and motivation/goal
listing) was varied. Data from 130 new participants revealed that, as hypothesized, if the motivation & goals
questionnaire were assessed first, then among the people who believed self-control is malleable, those who also believed
self-control to be unlimited (vs. limited) set more goals. When lay theories were assessed first, this result reversed.
The people who believed that self-control is fixed were unaffected by order.

The third study moved on to examine goal achievement, adding a measure to look at self-efficacy. The study had two
sessions, in November then February. In the first session , the 159 participants read passages about lay theories (much
like in study one, but with longer passages to strengthen the manipulation), listed the resolutions they were planning
on making at New Years, rated how disappointed they would be if they failed to keep their resolutions, and filled out
individual difference measures (which included a self-efficacy scale). Only 86 participants successfully returned for
the second session, during which they indicated how much success they had had at keeping their resolutions.

What does this mean for your resolutions?

The resolutions made by participants across all conditions were qualitatively similar (take a look at any list of
popular New Year's resolutions, and you'll see the majority of the goals). As shown in the first two studies, more goals
were set by people who believe self-control is unlimited and malleable than by any other people--that is, if you expect
more success, you may increase the difficulty and number of tasks that you set for yourself. Self-efficacy did not have
a significant effect on goal-setting.

As far as success goes, only the interaction between lay theory and self-efficacy was significant. If participants
believed in limited self-control and were low in self-efficacy, they tended to give up more often, failing to achieve
their goals. But if participants believed in unlimited self-control, self-efficacy had no effect; participants achieved
just as many goals regardless, and people who set more resolutions were marginally more likely to succeed.

Mukhopadhyay & Venkatarmani realize that their research does not directly look at the relationship between lay
theories of self-control and beliefs about one's own amount of self-control and self-efficacy, and propose this as an
area for future study. But in general, lay theories about self-control can determine how much success you'll expect (and
thus, how many goals you'll set), and self-efficacy beliefs can determine how much success you'll actually have.

References
         
Mukhopadhyay, A. & Johar, G.V. (2005). Where There Is a Will, Is There a Way? Effects of Lay Theories of Self-Control on Setting and Keeping Resolutions. Journal of Consumer Research , 31, 779-786 [ PDF ]
      
   

   
      
         Varsity athletics: Credit or no?

         
It's a matter of balance
         
Vassar's varsity athletes may soon receive academic credit for participating in
their sports during the school year . This proposal has been in the works for nearly two years, and at long last,
folks are voting to approve it. Or to not approve it, but the former seems more likely.

As a member of the Student Athlete Advisory Committee and as a long-time varsity athlete, you might say I have
particular stake in the proposal. After all, I could get half a unit a semester for up to four semesters--a typical
class is worth one unit, and a typical physical education course of any level is worth half a unit, with a maximum of
two physical education units counting toward graduation requirements. It seems justified: Students can receive credit
for participating in other extracurricular, faculty-supervised activities, such as the orchestra, the choir, and the
repertory dance theatre, so why not varsity athletics?

My friend over at Carolyn Blogs agrees: from the above standpoint, sure, it seems fair to give credit to
students . If you get credit for introductory P.E. classes, you should get credit for varsity athletics. But our
school newspaper presents other arguments in favor, which Carolyn thinks are highly unjustified:

On top of everything, we must remember that varsity athletics present a considerable time commitment. It is rare to
find another activity on campusacademic or extracurricularthat includes a comparable daily rigor and frequent
overnight obligation. Varsity athletes regularly travel throughout the northeastern to participate in meets, games and
tournaments, often gone from campus for an entire weekend at a time.  

And you know what? Although it's certainly frustrating to travel to Boston for an all-day competition on the same
weekend as a good friend's birthday party, a fascinating-sounding lecture, a dance party, and seventeen other campus
events no one in their right mind would ever want to miss, I agree with Carolyn. The reason I participate in my sport is
because I enjoy it. If I cared more about other activities, I'd do those instead. Simply being a huge time commitment is
not a valid reason for awarding credit. Carolyn's supporting example, that higher level courses with more difficult and
plentiful homework are worth the same amount of credit as introductory 100-level courses, drives this point home. And
she's backed up by our school's system of awarding units
instead of credit hours :

This systemwhich in its most basic form allots one unit of credit per semester course, regardless of difficulty,
hours in class and subject mattermakes Vassar relatively unique in its credit system.

According to Registrar Dan Giannini, The rationale behind such a system is to try to send the message that all
courses are equal in worth and that one shouldnt try to distinguish between courses based on time spent in or out of
class.

The reason time commitment is highlighted is because, according to the authors of the article, the faculty "must
consider what it can do to mitigate possible academic pressures on these students." Um. No, I don't think the faculty
has any obligation whatsoever. Students choose to be varsity athletes of their own accord. If they can't manage to
balance their athletics and their coursework, then perhaps they should reconsider participating in a varsity sport in
the first place. Athletes shouldn't get special privileges simply because they're athletes.

Personally, I like the fact that even though I dedicate huge chunks of time to my sport (more time than
I dedicate to any single course, at least while in-season), I can still keep up with my classmates who are taking
comparable course loads, minus the sport. Sacrifices must be made, sure: Dance party on Friday night, or overnight
travel to a competition? 

The question is, what's more important to me?

You learn stuff, too

The article continues:

 While athletes will continue to be held to the Colleges rigorous academic standards, the athletics credit could
discourage a varsity athlete from unnecessarily taking on five academic credits while in their athletic season.

With the proposed varsity credit, the athlete seeking to assume five courses in his or her athletic season will be
checked with an overload form, thus encouraging the student to think twice about assuming such a large academic and
extracurricular load.

I'd like to be known that students who have trouble balancing tough course loads and time-consuming extracurriculars
have always had the option of taking a lighter load or dropping an extracurricular. Adding the option of a
varsity unit to the list doesn't make much of a difference. Students who aren't varsity athletes could add an easy P.E.
course instead. Students who can balance their work and their sport will continue to do so. And let it be known, varsity
athletes don't have to take a half unit for their sport... thus negating the need for an overload form if
taking five courses. 

Carolyn says, in response to the above quote, that "participating in sports is optional, and should always take
second place to academics." True, mostly. Academics are officially what college is about. Academics are what get graded.
Students' GPAs will, in part, determine what they are able to do with their lives. But academics are only one particular
kind of knowledge. Carolyn's statement assumes that a student can learn more important things from academics than from
participation on a sports team. Personally, though, some of the most important things I've learned about persistence,
goal-setting, success and excellence, effort, teamwork, leadership.... these I've learned from my sport and my coaches.
It's a different kind of knowledge than what one typically gains in an academic course, yes. But it's no less important.
And that, I think, is the best reason for awarding credit for varsity athletics.
      
   




Detroit and the Myth of the $100 House | Uprooted, an eco/travel
blog



 America's Rust Belt is a swath of cities and towns that boomed during the
Industrial Era and now lie -- well, rusting -- as empty remainders of glory days
past.
Chief among these is Detroit, Motor City. The longtime center of American
automotive manufacturing was gutted when the Big Three car companies
simultaneously failed.

Detroit, already plagued by corruption and crime, saw its unemployment rate
skyrocket in 2009.

What's left behind when an economy collapses? Cheap real estate, that's what.

I'd read a New
York Times article about some forward-thinking artist-types who bought a house in Detroit for $1,900 . $1,900! Some of us
(and lots of New Yorkers) pay that much in rent every month!
In fact, the article went on, soon a nearby house went on the market for $100.
The artist types notified their buddies, who moved in post haste.
I was intrigued. Really? A $100 house? Even if it was a real
fixer-upper, even if you really were better off tearing it down than living in
it, that'd still be a hell of a deal. Why, out in New Mexico, where you can
still buy unincorporated land with no water or roads, you'd pay at least $1,000
for a house-sized plot of dust. So how can you buy an actual home for $100? That's literally cheaper than dirt.

The possibilities of this were fascinating. I had visions of hipsters from coast
to coast converging in Detroit, building a new city on rock&roll. I pictured
young artists owning homes, fixing up neighborhoods. I saw community gardens,
art parks, a grassroots transformation of a city. We could take that oil-stained
soil and those rusted factories, and create something new and beautiful. With
houses going for $100, I thought,  what would you have to lose
by moving to Detroit?
And so Quiet Earp and I did some research, and came up with a list of houses
selling for under a grand. We had plenty to choose from: there were more cheap
houses than we would have time to visit. We picked two neighborhoods to cruise,
and dove in.
But once we entered Detroit, the truth hit fast: this is a modern American ghost
town. The place is practically deserted. Its streets, built wide to accommodate
heavy traffic, are mostly empty. Houses and businesses are boarded up, painted
up, bombed out and falling down. Even in the center of the business district,
there's no traffic and hardly any people.
Don't believe me? I videotaped it:

It got worse as we drove into residential areas, looking for those cheap houses.
In fact, I've never felt so out of place in all my life .
Even in Chicago's South Side, where we counted five white people in an hour, I
felt fine just driving around; not so in Detroit. Truthfully, it wasn't about
race: it was about being naive. It was about driving down streets where we truly
did not belong and were not welcome.

Detroit is a ghost town, and it's inhabited by ghosts: the only people left here
are those who can't or won't leave. They live in deserted neighborhoods, in
houses with collapsed front steps and missing windows. They sit on the porch and
watch the cars go by, watch the deals go down, watch their neighborhoods
crumble. And we, driving through slowly and reading house numbers in a
late-model Honda, stuck out like a couple of thumbs.
So we sped up, and went straight to the houses. Sometimes we stopped to take a
photo, but mostly we didn't. Earp and I have each lived happily in the wilds of
West Oakland, but the danger I felt in Detroit was like nothing I'd experienced
before. I was actually afraid for my life.

The New York Times correspondent wrote that his friend Mitch's $1,900 home "had
already been stripped of its appliances and wiring ... But for Mitch that only
added to its appeal, because he now had the opportunity to renovate it with
solar heating, solar electricity and low-cost, high-efficiency appliances."
As for the $100 house? It "needed some work, a hole patched, some windows
replaced."
Well, I don't know what part of Detroit these folks live in, but the $100 houses
I saw looked more like this:

You see, abandoned houses in this town get set on fire. No exceptions. Wherever
we went in those neighborhoods, one in four houses had been torched. On one
corner, we saw a giant banner hung across a charred front porch. We didn't slow
down to take a photo, but I'll paraphrase: DON'T BURN
HOUSES DOWN! DETROIT POLICE ARE WATCHING YOU!
Except that they obviously aren't. People who live in this part of town are on
their own. And although I and many others would love to own even a fire-scarred,
condemned building, the fact is that we wouldn't last a week here. Buy a $100
house in Detroit, and you get a lifetime supply of sleepless nights: you'll
spend the next several years waiting for burglars and arsonists, murderers and
crackheads to break in the windows.
It's like the Wild West without the scenery, the gold, and the hope. It's the
Rust Belt.

Ultimately, I do believe that change will come to Detroit. There
will be a green movement here ; in fact it's already being cultivated by
forward-thinking
groups and 
intrepid locals . One day, this place will be reborn.
But right now, the NYT's story reeks of Shinola.
Truth is, any artist-type who moves into this part of Detroit is
probably pretty handy with a pistol or a shotgun . Anyone who takes this
plunge is risking their life every day, betting on a future that may take a long
time to arrive.


Long story short: Yes, you can buy a house in Detroit
for $100. And you will get what you pay for.

Cheers to Toby Barlow , who inspired my trek to Detroit, and who believes in a
happier, greener future. May your every dream come true, sir, and your book
sell fabulously. 








16 Responses to "Detroit and the Myth of the $100 House"


bisnis 16. Sep, 2009 at 9:46 pm 
Great post. Thank you for this info. I need that


 Myself 19. Sep, 2009 at 10:06 am 

Please track down and watch a movie called "Detroit: A City to Yourself", by
Nicole MacDonald. It's full of this imagery, and talks about the 1805 fire
and rebuilding, and the post-industrial devastation that's ravaged the city
since.
Most poignantly, it talks about Hurricane Katrina, which focused attention on
rebuilding another city with this level of devastation, and how without a
single catastrophic event to blame for it, Detroit's decay has gone
unsympathetically ignored.
The movie wraps up by observing this, how abandoned buildings and spaces are
being reclaimed by nature. About the pop fiction which explores the concept
of a post-human world, and how it already exists now. And about how, if
you're a pheasant, that's not such a bad thing.
HOWEVER ... 
There's a lot more to Detroit than that. There are industrial spaces being
turned into low-rent artist lofts and business incubators. (Look at the
Russell Industrial Complex, for one example.) There are neighborhoods that
refuse to cave. (west of Livernois around McNichols). There's a whole bunch
of nice stuff happening along the riverfront, from downtown up towards Stroh
Place.
And there's always Belle Isle. When friends come to Detroit, I take them
there. It's our in-the-river park, 982 acres of green space, with a zoo, a
botanical garden and conservatory, rentable paddle boats, and tons of other
neat stuff. Next time you're in Detroit, please head over. Oh, and entry is
free, so it's available to anyone regardless of economic status. You're
liable to see families picnicking, bums gathering bottles and cans, geese
foraging, and deer cautiously wandering the edge of the woods. Within a
hundred yards of each other.
Some of that cheap real estate isn't too horrible, either. There's a whole
street being taken over by artists, Farnsworth between Moran and McDougall.
Some of the things they've done down there are amazing, and the community
garden is a great bridge to the surrounding neighborhood. A few weeks ago,
someone broke into their shed to steal their garden tools. Think about that
for a moment, hoes and shovels don't have enough pawn value to be worth
carrying out. Whoever took that stuff is probably using it in their own
garden.
Yes, Detroit's got more than its share of bad spots, you're right. I've lived
in the metro area my whole life, and there are areas (I can't call them
neighborhoods) down there where I don't feel safe in daytime, much less at
night. But there are bright spots, and behind every one of them is a person,
or a bunch of people, who refuse to give up.


 Jessica 19. Sep, 2009 at 10:30 am

Myself -- Thanks for the comment and the great information. You are exactly
the kind of person who gives me back the hope I lost on my way into town.
Seems there's a pretty solid group of Detroit residents who are truly
committed to restoring the city, and that's beautiful to see.
Love the fact that people are stealing garden implements (though it's still
sad that they need to).
I will absolutely watch A City To Yourself, thank you for the recommendation.
And when I'm in the area again, I'll go out to Belle Isle and think
long&hard about the future of American cities--as I'm sure you do
occasionally too.


 Reader Not Writer 20. Sep, 2009 at 10:17 pm

Well, growing up not far from Detroit myself, I would point out a few
things:
1. Driving a Honda in Detroit right now probably isn't really going to get
you welcomed with open arms. See, there's a wee bit of loyalty to the Big 3
and driving a foreign car doesn't really scream "solidarity" to those
struggling to survive. Most of the funny looks you got were less about your
color than about your ride. You think I'm kidding, but I couldn't be more
serious -- that Honda is a visceral reminder for people of how the American
consumer has left Detroit in the dust.
2. Detroit (proper) has been dying for a long time -- before the 1968 riots,
even. Its going to take some pioneering individuals to start creating those
pockets of innovation, creativity, and vision. But its not going to happen
with the investment of $100 into a single house. Someone will need to begin
by creating an urban "oasis" that mitigates some of the fears that you had
while driving through the city -- where to buy groceries, a place where you
can feel safe on your own front porch, the freedom to sleep soundly without
worrying about your copper wiring.
3. For all that is wrong with Detroit -- and that's nearly everything --
you'd be astonished by the pride that Detroiters have for their city. They
lack the means to build her back to her former glory, but she won't be
abandoned. For all of those who are trapped there by their circumstances,
there are just as many who insist that they wouldn't live anywhere else.


 Raggedy Anarchy 21. Sep, 2009 at 7:21 pm 
Thank you for the opportunity to see post-BushCo era Detroit through the
prism of your vision.
I've never been there, but ever since that mad, possessed American History
Professor I had, I've been haunted by Detroit. No, even before that -- 
The Dollmaker  has often been called 'America's least pretentious
masterpiece'. (Joyce Carol Oates in the NYTBR)
When folks like Gertie Nevels, and Levon Helm and John Hiatt and my favorite,
John Henry, left the mountains to go wrestle with the Industrial leviathan
in Detroit, they were in it to the death. Detroit won't be the death of the
courage of those early Detroit pioneers; it looks like Nature will prevail
after all. Everybody wins.
I love what you are doing.


 Uncle B 18. Oct, 2009 at 7:53 am 
Is this the monument left behind for the world to witness, by Corporatism,
Capitalism? Is this the greatness they built on earth? Is this the proof
that all countries deserve democracy and its inevitable cancers, corporatism
and capitalism? We die in war to bring this to other countries? This,
American Glory? In a class-less society? This is the final phase, the
crowning glory of America's greatness? Does this show our system's
superiority over the commies in China? The old Soviet Guard? Europe's
follies? Have we really built a "Great Society" or is that all propaganda --
Bull Shiite to hush free thought, eyes to the flag, while our pockets and
resources were raided by shysters, spin-meisters, schmucks and banksters?
Did we build sane, sustainable, survival shelter homes? Do we still have
fertile backyard gardens, filled with the composting of the age? Can any of
what we built be recovered, restored, renovated, into useful shelter? Did
the tools of production really get sold, to the shareholders benefit,
leaving the worker without means to defend himself? Have the great fortunes
earned in trust as "American" for American investment here in America,
really migrated to the Beijing, Shanghai, and Hang-Seng markets, converted
to safer "Yuan" and invested in China's wealth? Did this really happen to
American patriots? Do you still love democracy, corporatism, capitalism and
all it has done for you? Are you really "Free"? Is Conscription just around
the corner, to serve Halliburton(Dubai) in attaining pipeline clearance
through Afghanistan, to Turkmenistan and the oil field there? Are American
lives well spent in thei "Middle East" endevor? Are we just mercenaries for
big oil, not liberators spreading "Freedom"? Is this really just flag-waving
propaganda? What, exactly did we win in Iraq? Cheaper Oil? I think not!
Gratitude of a Free nation? I think not! Why has the "Rust Belt" come into
being? What were we doing? Where did the great society for all, the one we
were told we were building go? Japan? China? To the Uber-Rich? As we sink
into our own ruins, the dark horse rides on America! The dark horse rides
on! Sad.


 Lumpy 22. Oct, 2009 at 3:14 pm

Green movement? You gotta be kidding me! Earth to Jessica: Democrats caused
this. They have the unmidas touch. Every decaying city in America has D's
firmly in control, and has forever.
When you said you were naive, you weren't kidding.


 Jessica Reeder 22. Oct, 2009 at 3:36 pm 
Nope, I wasn't kidding. Put it in writing, didn't I?
Lumpy, I'm not a Democrat and I don't much approve of the Democratic Party.
Just so we're clear on that. I don't think you present a fully-informed
argument on the causes of urban decay, but I don't disagree with you.
I'm not particularly interested in whose fault this mess is; rather, I choose
to focus on how we're going to clean it up. That's where the green movement
comes in, and when I say "green" I'm talking plants not politics.
If you've got some fancy new technology at Boeing that can do more for
people's health and happiness (and for less cost) than a victory garden can
do, please let me know.


 Raggedy Anarchy 24. Oct, 2009 at 6:17 pm

Last I checked, greed, sloth, hubris and waste were all pretty universally
human traits, and I see no halos around either Libertarians, Dems or even
anarchically green-at-heart.
I agree -- Democrats, like country music, have disappointed me too many times
in the past for me to keep on listening. But here's the thing -- frogs are
mutating due to the planet trying to kill itself. Salmon have forgot how to
screw. Otters in post-Valdez Alaska are clawing their own
petro-chemical-burned eyes out in pain.
The patient is earth, and it's not getting better. You want to yell at which
insurance company fucked up, or change a bedpan, so to speak? During times
of crisis (which this is), the ones who will create positive change are
those who accept the hand they are dealt and act. The ones who are educated
and informed and attached to delegating moral judgements will be perfectly
equipped to deal with a world that no longer exists. Just ask the
Palestinians who left after the first war to cry over the past. Or ask my
Paiute grandfather. *Or even Friend Salmon, who still haunts my dreams and
tells me not to let us blow each other's asses off the earth until we clean
up the mess we have made.
*That was for Lumpy. Nobody gets laughed at alone in my presence.


 Raggedy Anarchy 24. Oct, 2009 at 6:21 pm 
" ... when I say green Im talking plants not politics."
Wall-E.


 Eric 01. Nov, 2009 at 10:33 pm 
There is now a house for $10 listed on realtor.com


 Helena 19. Nov, 2009 at 1:06 pm 
You told me about this, but it has to be seen to be believed (not that I
didn't believe you!). The richest country in the world ... ?!


 Fred E. 18. Jan, 2010 at 8:09 pm 
Don't forget about the back taxes!


 Parker 15. May, 2010 at 6:56 am 
I find this topic fascinating. I was born in a suburb of Detroit and most of
family still lives there. I will be going back to visit in June. I plan to
take a (Daytime) tour of these decaying areas especially the old factories.
I have the urban explorer fascination. However, the main reason I wanted to
post was to say to "Lumpy", "the democrats have the unmidas touch", LMAO,
that is classic. and I must agree with Lumpy. Freaking hillarious and so
true. Thanks Lump-man. BTW, great blog and great info. Peace.


 Brad 14. Oct, 2010 at 7:02 pm 
I, too checked out a few listings for under $1,000 and was absolutely shocked
at the property taxes. A $1,000 house, which could be fixed up into maybe a
$30-40,000 house comes with a tax bill of $4-6K per year! The taxes on my
$140K house in an urban area of Mississippi are only $1500/year.
Additionally, even if you paid cash for the house, you'd probably want to
carry some homeowner's insurance with all the inherent risks to the property
(arson, vandalism), and I'm sure it's sky-high, given those risks.








Bob Cesca's Awesome Blog! Go!



// Copyright (c) 1996-1997 Athenia Associates. // http://www.webreference.com/js/ // License
is granted if and only if this entire // copyright notice is included. By Tomer Shiran.


October 19, 2010

Effing Idiot


Go to 2:50 and listen as the audience laughs and laughs at O'Donnell's stupidity.

Damn. Well, at least she's losing. Badly. Thanks again, Sarah Palin! You successfully turned a
Republican seat to a, you know, "Marxist" seat. Good job. You're a genius.


 Filed under: Christine O'Donnell, Election 2010, Sarah Palin, Teabaggers, Wingnuts

Posted By Bob Cesca | October 19, 2010 2:43 PM





Comments


I heard this same accusation on Kos today, that the audience is laughing AT Christine
O'Donnell on the first thing she says, but I disagree entirely: On THAT point, HER supporters
are laughing at COONS, it's absolutely a "She's got YOU, DUMBASS!!" laugh, the sort of
"Oh-No-She-D'I'INT!" laugh you'd hear from a studio audience when the slightly stupid but
affable and hitherto ineffective Dunce Character finally gets a zinger in on the Handsome
Lead.

Remember that at least half the audience in a venue like this would be there to support
O'Donnell, and the "Point to 'Separation of Church and State' in the Constitution" dig
is a virulently popular meme in the loonosphere from whence comes the Teabagger Political
Playbook. Those are hoots and calls of SUPPORT for O'Donnell supposedly putting one over on
Coons, they aren't laughing at her. 

There may very well have been a gasp, and some uncomfortable "Okay, that's enough now"
chuckles at the end, but the guffaws at the top of the clip are WITH her, not AT her.
Posted by: ELDING at October 19, 2010 2:52 PM



Hilarious.
Posted by: adx at October 19, 2010 3:00 PM


I don't think the audience is laughing at Coons; the laughter has an incredulous, oh-my-god
sound to it. But it's obvious that O'Donnell thinks they're laughing at him, not her. When she
hears the reaction, she looks out at the audience with a big, proud grin. She thinks she just
scored mucho points on Baldy.

Elding is right; "separation of church and state isn't in the Constitution" is a major
wingnut talking point. They routinely claim that the establishment of religion clause doesn't
mean what everyone else thinks it means. So although this shows what an extremist nut
O'Donnell is, it's not really a gaffe; it's standard stuff right out of their playbook.
Posted by: Steve8489 at October 19, 2010 3:04 PM


Well, if one is looking for the phrase, "Separation of Church and State," yeah,
that's not in there, so TADA! Yay! Looks at me, I wins a big arguments and I poops my pants.
But the principle is in there. I love when ignorant fucks like O'Donnell and her little
orcling hordes make huge category mistakes like this. It's is akin to taking a tour of a
college and starting it off at the administration offices and when that part of the tour is
finished, someone like O'Donnell says, "Ok, that's great, but when are we gonna start seeing
the college?"

Posted by: at October 19, 2010 3:10 PM



Yes, it's standard stuff, and HER CROWD would have springboarded OFF of it, that's what I'm
saying: As far as she's concerned, it's not a gaffe, and as far as HER SUPPORTERS in the room
are concerned, it was not only NOT a gaffe, it was a Direct Hit. They should have applauded,
that would have settled this matter for good. I'm convinced that's not laughing at her, that's
"Ooo, good one!" FOR her. 
Posted by: ELDING at October 19, 2010 3:11 PM


Well ELDING, its already being reported that it was HER that was clueless so Coons gets the
last laugh on that. 
Posted by: Allonfla at October 19, 2010 3:30 PM


I don't believe this was a public event, Elvis, I think it was a debate before the students
at the law school. I mean, it could be some of her supporters infiltrated, but I truly believe
there would've been lots of catcalling, etc. if that were the case.
Posted by: pea at October 19, 2010 3:30 PM


Yeah, Pea, you have a point there, but still: The laughter doesn't sound incredulous to me,
it sounds appreciative and snarky. Put yourself in a non-partisan Law School Student position:
Would you laugh at loud at a Teabagger Meme like the one she dropped, or would you
mutter/grumble to yourself, whispering to your colleague, "What a fucking idiot!" I don't see
a crowd like that laughing out loud at such a pitiful little meme, it's not even worth a
laugh-out-loud guffaw. 
Posted by: ELDING at October 19, 2010 3:53 PM


well, keep in mind that all of them probably know what a freak she is. I think it might be
more of a "holy crap, I can't believe she just topped all the other stupid shit she's said,
and I got to bear witness to it!" laughter. I know if I had the opportunity to attend a Sarah
Palin rally, I'd be overjoyed to hear some incredible stupid falling out of her mouth.
Posted by: pea at October 19, 2010 4:07 PM


which would be, uh, ANY Sarah Palin rally. Also.
Posted by: pea at October 19, 2010 4:08 PM



ELDING......

the debate was at a LAW SCHOOL. You really think lawyers are going to laugh at Coons rather
than O'Donnell???

Not a snowballs chance in hell.
Posted by: Nicole473 at October 19, 2010 5:00 PM


Excerpts from http://tinyurl.com/26ddbvd

"'You actually audibly heard the crowd gasp,' Widener University political scientist Wesley
Leckrone said after the debate, adding that it raised questions about O'Donnell's grasp of the
Constitution.

Erin Daly, a Widener professor who specializes in constitutional law, said that while there
are questions about what counts as government promotion of religion, there is little debate
over whether the First Amendment prohibits the federal government from making laws
establishing religion.

"She seemed genuinely surprised that the principle of separation of church and state derives
from the First Amendment, and I think to many of us in the law school that was a surprise,"
Daly said. "It's one thing to not know the 17th Amendment or some of the others, but most
Americans do know the basics of the First Amendment."

O'Donnell didn't respond to reporters who asked her to clarify her views after the
debate."
Posted by: Big_Ben at October 19, 2010 5:48 PM



Anyone who says "Evolution is only a THEORY...it's not a fact" is so stupid; so utterly
fucking brainless, uneducated, ignorant, clueless and unread they should immediately be
sterilized on the slim chance that there's a genetic component to their imbecility.
Anyone who stubbornly knows so little about science cannot possibly be expected to develop the
analytical skills necessary to interpret Con Law.
Posted by: cousinavi at October 19, 2010 5:50 PM


If the laughter was with her, then the joke is on everyone there in support, of course,
because moments later, after she's basically pounding the desk talking about the constitution
and her unyielding devotion to that which does not separate church and state(ha-ha), she can't
recall the 14th and 16th amendments and needs to be refreshed by the questioner.

That's the real "busted!" moment here, if you ask me.

For people who speak so militantly about adhering to the constitution, I expect a military
like response to such a simple question.

Wingnuts will turn blue arguing about a Christian nation and constitution, but not knowing
two amendments, as a person running to uphold and defend the constitution containing those
amendments, this clip exposes her and the Tea Party faithful as constitutional frauds.

Not knowing what the constitution says when asked is bold font black over white. There's no
grey area, here.

As a defender, you can say, "well, she believes church and state are indivisible, so do I."
But you can't say she knows the constitution when she clearly does not. 

As someone trying to get a government job with great benefits where the qualification is
basically, "take this constitution and defend it with your life," Tea Party Republicans spend
an awful lot of time tearing it up and reassembling the pieces to their acquired tastes. 

Her argument dismissing the separation of church and state is dessert before dinner.

Slightly off-topic, I've been spending a lot of time on potential swing vote forums adding
fact to fiction. It's hilarious when republicans who voted for Bush twice and approved the
majority of the way through(approval among republicans was pretty consistent)are telling me
about all the mistakes Obama makes and imparting their Bush-loving "wisdom" to those less
in-the-know.

If you think Bush was good enough to vote for twice, and you're one of the 60 million
McCain/Palin people, your qualifications and insight, like Christine O'Donnell's, are comical
at best.

Make no mistake, I'm laughing AT you, Tea Party Republican people.
Posted by: MrBrink at October 19, 2010 5:50 PM


If the laughter was with her, then the joke is on everyone there in support, of course,
because moments later, after she's basically pounding the desk talking about the constitution
and her unyielding devotion to that which does not separate church and state(ha-ha), she can't
recall the 14th and 16th amendments and needs to be refreshed by the questioner.

That's the real "busted!" moment here, if you ask me.

For people who speak so militantly about adhering to the constitution, I expect a military
like response to such a simple question.

Wingnuts will turn blue arguing about a Christian nation and constitution, but not knowing
two amendments, as a person running to uphold and defend the constitution containing those
amendments, this clip exposes her and the Tea Party faithful as constitutional frauds.

Not knowing what the constitution says when asked is bold font black over white. There's no
grey area, here.

As a defender, you can say, "well, she believes church and state are indivisible, so do I."
But you can't say she knows the constitution when she clearly does not. 

As someone trying to get a government job with great benefits where the qualification is
basically, "take this constitution and defend it with your life," Tea Party Republicans spend
an awful lot of time tearing it up and reassembling the pieces to their acquired tastes. 

Her argument dismissing the separation of church and state is dessert before dinner.

Slightly off-topic, I've been spending a lot of time on potential swing vote forums adding
fact to fiction. It's hilarious when republicans who voted for Bush twice and approved the
majority of the way through(approval among republicans was pretty consistent)are telling me
about all the mistakes Obama makes and imparting their Bush-loving "wisdom" to those less
in-the-know.

If you think Bush was good enough to vote for twice, and you're one of the 60 million
McCain/Palin people, your qualifications and insight, like Christine O'Donnell's, are comical
at best.

Make no mistake, I'm laughing AT you, Tea Party Republican people.
Posted by: MrBrink at October 19, 2010 5:50 PM


Oh, double-post. Why do you taunt my caffeinated clicky finger?
Posted by: MrBrink at October 19, 2010 5:53 PM


Oh, double-post. Why do you taunt my caffeinated clicky finger?
Posted by: MrBrink at October 19, 2010 5:53 PM


I have to agree with Pea and Nicole...you can clearly hear a man's voice say "Oh my god"
after O'Donnell says that and his tone is "I can't believe she said something so incredibly
stupid". Yeah, they were laughing at her, as is appropriate.

Posted by: Irish Girl at October 19, 2010 5:53 PM


It's beyond frustrating to me, as someone who has studied Constitutional Law, who competed on
the the national level on it in law school, and who published an article on it, to hear people
who clearly haven't done the first of these talk about it as if they know better than I do what
the Constitution says, means, and is all about. 

I had a TPer over at HuffPo tell me I didn't know what I was talking about vis--vis the need
for Constitutional interpretation and Constitutional Law (he believed that any and all
Constitutional questions must and can only be resolved by Amendment , not
by judicial review), before proudly proclaiming that he had never gone to law school and
"despise[d] the legal profession." 

Where do you go from there?
Posted by: GrafZeppelin127 at October 19, 2010 6:41 PM


I thinks this illustrates their biblical view of the Constitution, and by that I mean they
regard it the same way as they regard the Holy Bible. It's a document that is not to be
questioned, but merely followed to the letter because it was handed down to us by greater
beings. Oh, and like the Holy Bible, that we mere mortals are not supposed to question or
interpret, they'll let us know what it really means and that will often conflict with
what it actually says.

They try to exert some sort of control over it's meaning by elevating it to a level that
makes it untouchable. To them it's not a living document that was designed to change with the
nation, but essentially carved in stone like the Ten Commandments. Immutable and unchanging.
Except for, you know, maybe an amendment barring gay marriage. But in order to regain some
control over their lives that they firmly believe they've lost, they're now trying to
determine, with unwavering certainty, that we've all been doing this wrong the whole time and
if we just get back to what the founders wanted, everything will be ok.

Give 'em a few minutes, though. They're waiting on an email reply from the Washington
re-enacter at Arlington to hand down some decisions.
Posted by: Nanotyrannus at October 19, 2010 7:19 PM


@GrafZeppellin127

In answer to your question -- where do you go from there? I've recently come to the
conclusion that the answer is "nowhere". I used to be against making blanket statements about
the hard core tea partiers, like the person you described..."they're not all crazy" "they're
not all hateful" but lately, i'm over it. 

 they don't believe in: evolution, climate change, the dept of education, public education,
taxes in order to pay for roads/police and firemen. they believe the President is not an
American. they see no problem with racism, sexism and fascism. they don't understand that
"freedom of speech" doesn't mean freedom from consequences. they confuse losing an election
with tyranny. they horde food because glenn beck told them so -- they conflate their "movement"
with the civil rights movement --they "detain" reporters, on public property, for the crime of
asking questions...

you don't reason with people who believe these things, any more than you'd try to reason with
charles manson. they're crazy -- plain and simple and it's really, really sad.
Posted by: mslarry1973 at October 19, 2010 7:23 PM


@ ELDING - Have to disagree, buddy. The debate was at Widener Law School. They laughed at her
the second time as well when she incredulously asked, as if not believing Coons, "That's in the
First Amendment?"

I don't think they were laughing at him. If they were, they'd be reacting after his comment
(and probably booing and calling him a liar) rather than reacting after her comment.
Posted by: Broadway Carl at October 19, 2010 7:23 PM


@Irish Girl.....so good to see you!! I hope you're well. :)
Posted by: Nicole473 at October 19, 2010 7:59 PM


GrafZeppelin:

I had a TPer over at HuffPo tell me I didn't know what I was talking about vis--vis
the need for Constitutional interpretation and Constitutional Law (he believed that any and all
Constitutional questions must and can only be resolved by Amendment, not by judicial review),
before proudly proclaiming that he had never gone to law school and "despise[d] the legal
profession." 

There is nowhere to go with these ignoramuses. They would not believe you if you parted the
sea for them first. I learned my lesson at HP. While it can be personally satisfying to present
all your little ducks in a row, they will never stop erroneously knocking the damn ducks out of
line. 
Posted by: Nicole473 at October 19, 2010 8:02 PM


You know she had better watch out! The separation between church and state is what saves us
from SHARIA LAW! I think those trying to diminish the separation are probably secret Muslim
sympathizers that are sneaking SHARIA LAW in on us!
Posted by: Ron Spridgen at October 19, 2010 8:17 PM


Nah, I'm convinced that the audible gasps and stifled chuckles were from her attempt to bluff
her way through an exchange regarding the Constitution in a room full of lawyers. 

Performance art, people.

She's not running to win, and if you think she is, you're not paying attention.
Posted by: Lexaburn at October 19, 2010 10:58 PM

Think of those Bill Maher clips. The constant television appearances for the last decade or
so. Think of who endorsed her, and how O'Donnell could teach her a thing or two
about...moderate ad-libbing.

The strategy is this: be as foolish as possible, so no one anticipates you actually knowing
anything. Embrace the derision and/or ridicule. Go on the circuit as a passionate advocate for
whatever cause you choose to co-opt. In O'Donnell's case it's the same pseudo-Christianity
holy rollers dignify to play within the political arena. In Palin's case, it's the
crypto-fascism that oozes within the GOP. The Teapublicans fool no one with their talk of
independence and the theatrical in-fighting. They always tame those they let in their ranks or
they destroy them. Palin knows her place, as do they all.

Do you really think a serious candidate would go around asking for hints during a debate?
Seriously! O'Donnell is not that stupid. I know some of you want to think she is for the sake
of mirth and merriment, but she ain't. Sorry. Just like Palin isn't stupid enough to confuse
PA with WV. Poke fun all you want, but at least be realistic with yourselves: you have just as
much fun as they're having. 

Trust me, y'all, they are faking it!

O'Donnell's running on personality alone, nothing more, nothing less. Regarding politics,
she's a glorified booster, same as with Mangle in Nevada. Lowden the chicken-lady and Mangle
were merely supposed to challenge and beat Reid, then get out of the way. O'Donnell is to be a
face for the underdog teabaggers. This is why they're not making a full investment in her. Her
place is not in the senate, but on television.
Posted by: Lexaburn at October 19, 2010 11:17 PM


Elvis, having watching the video several times, I have to disagree. The audience was clearly
laughing at her and her ignorance. However, she clearly thinks she that she has scored a huge
win and that the audience was on her side.

Just more of her complete separation from reality.
Posted by: DC at October 19, 2010 11:23 PM


Oh, and ELDING, their reaction stems from the fact that she broached the subject again after
the moderator moved on. Her question was the equivalent of asking "Where're the pictures?"
when staring at the document, especially in that setting.

She did it on purpose, not to further the discussion, but to establish that, yes, she is a
dependable dumbass.

I'm telling you all, she's running a game.
Posted by: Lexaburn at October 19, 2010 11:24 PM


Lexaburn, I have to disagree with your assessment that this is all a game and that she's not
that dumb. I don't believe she's as dumb as she is ignorant. It if really is a game for
O'Donnell, then what's the end game? She may have flown under the radar for her previous
campaigns, but now she's made herself a fool in the national spotlight and effectively ruined
any chance of continuing her charade, if her intention was to be a lifelong nominee in the
first place.

Being a perpetual campaigner can only get you so far, and if they don't intend to win after
getting the nomination, then that con game is limited.

Maybe Palin fits more into the realm of your assessment, but if she runs and loses in 2012,
her shelf life is limited too.

Posted by: Broadway Carl at October 20, 2010 12:29 AM
@Nicole, hi! It's good to be back. I've been awol due to having a baby....little Liam was
born on 9/21 (a couple of weeks early but he's doing well). Thank goodness for FMLA and
maternity leave. 
Posted by: Irish Girl at October 20, 2010 1:08 AM

BC, you misunderstand me. I'm not saying she knows a damned thing about the Constitution. In
fact, I'd go a far as to say she doesn't give one damn about it. What I'm saying is that going
into these discussions, she's fully aware of her deficiencies. To tell the truth, I can't tell
you her actual "endgame," per se, but if I had a guess it would be an extended stint on a
cable news channel.

The "shelf life" of both women is only limited to the fraction with which they uphold a
standard. Palin took standards out of the equation when she quit her job. Were she to actually
run, it would be for vanity's sake. She's reaching for what O'Donnell has already achieved.
They've both lowered themselves to being cheerleaders for so-called "conservative" causes.
Well, Palin did anyway.

I attribute part of my assessment of O'Donnell to info I've gleaned from a good friend of
mine that knew her on the media circuit at the start of the decade. My friend describes her as
a "bad actress" primarily, that co-opts "conservativism," but doesn't necessarily cling to it
as some may believe. This friend tells me that Christine doesn't believe half provocative
and/or boneheaded things she's saying. O'Donnell is described as a normal conservative
Republican woman by my friend. I am convinced personally that O'Donnell's just a starved media
personality that found a new gimmick in running for public office. That is the lifestyle
choice she has made, and she's sticking with it. Some of the innuendo surrounding her leads me
to this conclusion, as well. However, I can't be too conclusive...

You know what, I'm being too much of a stuffy doctor.

Anyway, that smile she gives after asking about the 1st Amendment may very well be her being
in on the joke she's making of herself. It's not the fact that she tried and failed to dictate
content within a Constitutional Amendment; it's the fact that she knew she did not know and
said what she said regardless. Do not try to make sense out of anything of this if you're not
thinking like a...celebrity of whatever quality, let's say.

Here's what you do: gather all the O'Donnell appearances that you can from online sources.
Go through all, and see if her point of view EVER evolves beyond the con-servative blather or
the crank conspiracy theories. Next, ask yourself why she continues to be invited to these
public forums. What exactly is she adding to these conversations? In all my cable news
watching, I've seen far more dim characters than O'Donnell with regular gigs, so it's not the
fact that she's dumb that gets her on television. My friend tells me of certain connections
individuals like O'Donnell have that gets them the leeway they need to raise their public
profile. Since they really have no one to answer to, they can go on television and say
anything, get away with it, and do it again in yet another televised venue. It's a perpetual
cycle. She's not campaigning to win anything, I'm telling you, BC. 

You see how Rove immediately rejected her. I don't believe that was because she beat the
"establishment" candidate. In fact, my theory is that Rove wasn't so much as rejecting her, as
limiting her role within the media environment. I'm thinking she's aiming to be on FNC on a
regular basis. This all comes from my observing her debate performances, as well as her more
recent TV appearances. She's not so much running for office, as she is auditioning to be a
regular voice for the Cons. A reaffirmation of sorts. She's been at this for a while, and they
have younger, more loopier and dim-witted Con tarts traipsing about. Palin's taking time away
from them, but she has her own plans, which have yet to be revealed (though they may be all
too obvious).
Posted by: Lexaburn at October 20, 2010 3:42 AM
Christine O'Donnell is certainly ignorant in the sense that, while perfectly aware that
there are many things she doesn't know, she is clueless as to how that might be an
impediment. It's an odd combination - knowing you don't really have a solid grasp on a
subject, but still being convinced that one's core principals are enough to overcome any
obstacle.

O'Donnell believes in the bible. She's a Jesus freak. And that's enough for her.

O'Donnell is opposed to anything liberal, anything progressive, anything Obama, anything
Democrat, anything that can in any way be determined NOT to accord with the demands of her
savior and lord jesus christ (as SHE interprets his word) in any way. And that's enough
for her. The only reason she's a Republican / Tea Party gangster is because her brand of
theocracy and batshit stupidity would simply never fly anywhere else. In the stumped,
frustrated, hypocritcal idiocy of the extreme right - in that gang of redneck ignoramuses who
want simple answers to complex questions they do not understand - she finds the only market
for her brand of incompetent yammering.

Facts don't matter. Evidence doesn't matter. History doesn't matter. Just look at the clips
Bill Maher runs of her blithering, insistent certainty. She pisses off EVERYONE, all the time,
and never once = not a single time ever - stops long enough to even CONSIDER that maybe she's
the one who doesn't get it. It's THEY who don't get it. The constitutional lawyers don't
know fuck all about the constitution. She does because she took a week long course at Oxford
University! That she lies about her academic credentials, inflates beyond all reason and truth
the actual degree of study she has accomplished, does not in any way diminish her insistence
that she IS highly educated - really VERY knowledgeable about all of these things she doesn't
know about.

Richard Dawkins doesn't know anything about the "Theory" of evolution...he's just a cranky
atheist! She read a pamphlet from the Discovery Institute that totally explains the difference
between Creationism and Intelligent Design...which are not the same things, not at all, and
anyone who says they are is just wrong. Especially that court in Dover that found, as a matter
of FACT, that the ID crowd simply used "Find & Replace" to substitute "Intelligent Design"
for "Creation" (resulting in numerous instances of "Intelligent Designism"). But fuck it.
Everyone is wrong, Christine O'Donnell is right. And if you disagree with her, then you are
properly an object of scorn and derision for being so poorly informed about things.

It may not be campaigning to WIN. She may well know that she's unelectable. But in her mind
that's because the voters have been brainwashed by the same evil, wrong-headed liberal /
progressive indoctrination that has corrupted our schools, our leaders and our society.

Christine O'Donnell doesn't have a hidden agenda. She sees herself as morally correct,
profoundly right (in both senses of the term), and struggling as only a jebus loving martyr
can against the tide of evil sweeping her nation. 

As for why she consistently gets to appear on television: She's fuckable, in that weird
Sarah Palin way that makes me recoil in horror and wonder what the fuck is wrong with anyone
who would touch those women with their worst enemy's cock.  She'll say apeshit nuts
things about masturbation, and flirting with witchcraft, and insist that these things that SHE
knows - things no one else knows (like the top secret information about China's plans to take
over the USA to which only SHE is privy!) places her in the unique position to lecture Obama
on Con Law, Henry Kissinger on foreign policy history, Richard Dawkins on evolution, Lawrence
Krause on cosmology and Murray Gell-Mann on particle physics. She KNOWS things, see? Jebus
tells her things.

Frankly I think it's the result of the move in the 70's and 80's to tell students that they
were ALL special; that no one was any better or any smarter than anyone else; that everyone
has a RIGHT to their own opinion; to make sure that everyone who played the game got a
trophy. Now those self-inflated, self-important, self-esteem fiddled crowd are running
for office, and they are fucking well convinced that they DO know as much as anyone else, and
their OPINIONS about things are just as valid as anyone else's...even moreso because "it's MY
opinion...and who are YOU to tell me that I don't know what I'm talking about? YOU don't know
what you're talking about!"

Knowing she's going to lose is not the same thing as running TO lose... in the same way that
knowing she really doesn't know much about the constitution will never prevent her from
telling you what it must mean. She thinks she's right today, and she will think she's
right after being stomped to death at the polls. She will continue to blither her vacuous
bullshit on any platform she can find, spend campaign money on her rent, and go to bed every
night feeling as though she is fighting the good fight for jebus, truth and America.
Posted by: cousinavi at October 20, 2010 4:43 AM

Lex - Thanks for the clarification. It looks like you might have an inside track into this
person's make up. But I'm still going to think that her smile wasn't so much that she's in on
the joke as it was she really does think she knows what she's talking about. It is a
debate after all, a competition. To just shrug your shoulders and throw a hail mary pass with
a smile on your face would be suicidal. But really, who the hell knows?
Posted by: Broadway Carl at October 20, 2010 9:56 AM

Avi- I agree with you completely, except that I believe the "everyone is special" crowd
started in the 90's. I grew up in the 70's and there were no "gifted" programs for kids who
didn't happen to drool on themselves back then. The "entitlement because I deserve it"
generation is currently in their early to mid 20's. My wife deals with them all the time at
her place of employment.
Posted by: at October 20, 2010 10:06 AM










Fermentation:
The Daily Wine Blog



Eminent Domain Used To Usurp Wine Label Real Estate


 I was disappointed, though not surprised, to see that today a conjunctive
labeling law dictating that "Sonoma County" be placed on every label on wines
produced from grapes grown in Sonoma County was unanimously passed by the California Legislature . Pushed as an
effort to promote "Sonoma County" wines and a consumer education effort, the new
law instead forces vintners to needlessly sully their package and undermines
their own marketing efforts. Yet, the law does nothing to educate consumers.
Passed unanimously out of the California Assembly and Senate, AB 1798 now awaits
the Governor's signature, which it will surely obtain. According to Noreen
Evans, an Assembly sponsor of the bill, this new conjunctive labeling law
"requires that any wine labeled with an American Viticultural Area (AVA) located
entirely within Sonoma County -  like Russian River Valley or Dry Creek Valley
- must also include the word "Sonoma County" on the label, starting in 2014.
There are 13 AVAs in Sonoma County."
The problem, of course, is that by placing the words "Sonoma
County" on a bottle of wine that is made with grapes grown in "Russian River
Valley", "Dry Creek Valley", "Sonoma Valley" or any other AVA in
SonomaSonoma County" have any single distinguishing feature derived from the
fact that they were grown inside the borders of Sonoma County.  County,
consumers learn absolutely nothing about the wine in the bottle. There no
evidence that grapes grown in "
Assemblywoman Evans concludes, "By improving consumer education on each bottle,
conjunctive labeling will unleash the full potential of our delicious wines to
represent Sonoma around the world."
She's correct. Beginning in 2014, "Sonoma County" will receive a tremendous boost
in recognition due to the conjunctive labeling law that forces vintners to add
more wording to their labelswhether they think the words "Sonoma County" help
or hurt their marketing efforts.
Frankly, if I was making high end wine from the "Sonoma Valley", "Sonoma
Mountain" or "Sonoma Coast" AVAs that depended in part on the quality
recognition that comes wtih these AVAs, I'd be pissed that I'm forced now to put
a place-name on my label that told my buyers nothing of real value about the
wine behind my label and, in some cases, demonstrably lowered its perceived
quality.
Honore Comfort, Executive Director of the Sonoma County Vintners Association and
an outstanding representative for Sonoma County wines noted this: ". "This
moment ...marks the beginning of a stronger Sonoma County brand for generations
to come."
Proponents of the new Sonoma County Conjunctive labeling law like to point to a
similar law that demands "Napa Valley" be placed on all wines that are made from
grapes grown in that appellation, rather than simply using a sub appellation.
They point to the prestige that the "Napa Valley" designation carries. But this
prestige has nothing to due with the law that demands "Napa Valley", in addition
to simply "Rutherford", be placed on these wines. It has to do entirely with the
promotional effort that has gone into making "Napa Valley" a place associated
with great wines.
Such an association will not be made with "Sonoma County"
wines...ever. The vintners in Sonoma County simply can't make a case for
"Sonoma County" having any meaning or for a region as vast as "Sonoma
County" delivering any degree of quality to the grapes.
Why is it important for someone making "Sonoma Coast Pinot Noir" or "Sonoma
Valley Zinfandel" to help promote "Sonoma County", a designation that has no
ability to define the quality or character of the wines in my Sonoma Coast Pinot
Noir or my Sonoma Valley Zinfandel?
This is an example of a County usurping the private label real estate, and it's
very valuable real estate, for the sake of promoting something that is of little
use to private commercial interests. Ask yourself...If putting the words "Sonoma
County" on one's wines was such a great thing, why don't more vintners who make
"Dry Creek Valley", "Russian River Valley", "Alexander Valley" or "Sonoma
Valley" wines already put these words on their label? They legally could...if
they wanted to.

The new Sonoma County conjunctive labeling law is the equivalent
of the State of California and the County of Sonoma claiming imminent domain
over the labels of hundreds of vintners.




Comments

 Nick Perdiew said... I love it Tom. You found a way to tie this in nicely.
This is a case of over-reaching government regulation, costing business
unnecessarily and burdening them with more regulations. It's just
unnecessary.
 It also is a 'social promotion' in the sense that great Sonoma wines that
now are forced to use "Sonoma County" will be giving some of their
credibility to their lesser neighbors. Shades of wealth redistribution as
well. :-) Ew, ew, ew. 
 August 30, 2010 at 11:44 AM 


James McCann said... How many hundreds or thousands of labels will have to be
re-submitted to the TTB between now and 2014? 
 August 30, 2010 at 11:59 AM 


John Kelly said... "...I'd be pissed that I'm forced now to put a place-name
on my label that told my buyers nothing of real value about the wine behind
my label and, in some cases, demonstrably lowered its perceived quality." 
 Exactly, Tom. And I am really pissed. And so is every other producer I have
discussed this issue with. I still don't know whose interests are being
served by this useless piece of crap legislation. I completely agree with
you when you state: "Such an association will not be made with 'Sonoma
County' wines...ever." Duh. 
 I've got real skin in this game. We are going to have to totally redesign
our front label to make room for "Sonoma County" - and so far every mock-up
is cluttered and decreases the impact of our brand. 
 Our best option looks like we will go to "North Coast" or "California" for
our front label appellation, and discuss the grape source, vineyard name and
meaningful AVA on the back label. 
 Who is going to compensate me for this? I estimate the value to be in six
figures, and we are a small winery. For a larger winery with a
better-established brand the value is much higher. 
 Eminent domain is exactly right - this is nothing less than governmental
"taking." The legislators who backed this should be ashamed. They should
also expect to lose my vote for them next election. 
 August 30, 2010 at 12:04 PM 


Hardy Wallace said... Thanks Tom-- This law is such BS. 
 August 30, 2010 at 12:20 PM 


JohnLopresti said... I put in 1+ decades in trade coursework, and several
branches of the industry. I support the new labeling requirement. 
 Sonoma county always was the sheep ranch joke in the era of Napa's
well-deserved, early, global fame. Sonoma county now is as good or better
than those early Napa vintages. Together we have led the world into modern
viticulture, with the help of UC Davis, and in some pretty good company from
other regions. 
 I suppose the new law is all Sacramento hype. But I think it will improve
northcoast revenue and dignity. I admit I have voted for the bill's
authoress. 
 When I was a kid in a county called Solano (not too famous for wines or
AVAs) people sometimes would happen by our place asking where rte 37 was,
where was Black Pt.; people always were confused how the somewhat
neighboring counties had such similar names. Now after several decades in
Sonoma county I have learned to appreciate its uniqueness, for its
viticulture and other industries. 
 The town of Sonoma is on a typical route people follow driving from Solano
County to Sonoma County. The ambience in the town Sonoma is only an enclave;
it is rightfully proud of its heritage as a village, and for its
viticultural traditions. But Sonoma county encompasses much more territory,
and other AVAs within the county are starkly different from the
characteristics of Sonoma valley and the town of Sonoma. 
 Aint many people still overseeing vineyard blends. Vive la nouveau Sonoma
County. 
 August 30, 2010 at 01:24 PM 


Nick Perdiew said in 
 to JohnLopresti... John, Good of you to comment and good to have dissent.
What do you make of the fact that vintners *already* are free to put Sonoma
County on any label they want? Govt. cannot mandate marketing effectiveness
anymore than it can mandate perception of quality. If it were effective,
wouldn't you already see it virtually everywhere? I admit, I don't see the
reasoning of your argument here. The issue of the costs to vintners is
non-trivial too as you can see above. 
 August 30, 2010 at 02:04 PM 


Bill Cadman said... Tom-- I wonder what the response would be in Napa and
Sonoma if the vintners in Fresno convinced the state government to require
"California" be put on all labels of wine made within California? 
 August 31, 2010 at 10:40 AM 


JohnLopresti said... These past few years, 'eminent domain' has become a
libertarian property rights flashpoint, since the Kelo v New London, CT,
case concerning urban renewal polemics. I can see Tom W's concerns, too. 
 There was a counterpoint in the label world after some court cases resulted
in a company's revising its grape sourcing to comply with tightened
requirements for 75% in-county fruit in order to remain legal in designating
the wine as from "Napa". One rambling article's author counted 16
occurrences of the word Napa on the newly designed label of a famous budget
wine producer's 2005 Napa cabernet sauvignon. 
 August 31, 2010 at 02:04 PM 


JohnLopresti said... The links for @2:04: 

Kelo">http://caselaw.lp.findlaw.com/scripts/getcase.pl?court=us&vol=000&invol=04-108">Kelo 

http://citizensvoice.com/arts-living/2.212/2.213/fred-franzia-wine-s-archie-bunker-with-a-dose-of-donald-trump-1.564510?
localLinksEnabled=false 
 August 31, 2010 at 02:06 PM 


fredric koeppel said... what business is it of State government what
terminology goes on wine labels? those concerns belong to the federal govt
and the TTB, which already mandates, in fairly exhaustive detail, what goes
on front and back labels. and how can the state legislature single out two
counties (first Napa, now Sonoma) for this treatment? are they going to go
through the wine-producing counties one by one? 
 August 31, 2010 at 02:23 PM 


JohnLopresti said... vive la OIVV OIV_Wine_Labelling_Standard_EN_2006 
 re at Fredric K's BTYH website there is a review discussing MacRostie pinot
noir. I had thought of the kiltman with respect to a new AVA in Yorkville
highlands, thinking the Scot might have interest in playing the bagpipes in
the uplands. Then, at Steve's site there is an interesting discussion of his
current ongoing efforts with blends from Carneros and Sonoma Coast. It's
easy to get lost in nomenclatures, when one is striving for new concepts. 
 In a way, all this tries to approach terroir from a slight distance; plus
the historical distinctions between the two premium distinctive varietal
regions, Napa county and Sonoma county. Winkler heat summation datapoints
also clarified several decades ago some of the plant physiologic
underpinnings of why Napa county and Sonoma county were the natural leaders
in premium winegrape production. There are many reasons why the new labeling
requirement makes sense from all these perspectives. 
 September 01, 2010 at 04:22 PM 


JohnLopresti said... sorry, I keep forgetting the Fermentation site's html
protocol; here is the OIVV label guideline link again:
http://news.reseau-concept.net/images/oiv_uk/Client/OIV_Wine_Labelling_Standard_EN_2006.pdf 
 September 01, 2010 at 04:25 PM 


El Jefe said... OK, so here's the real requirement: 
 "Any wine labeled with an American Viticultural Area established yada yada,
that is located entirely within yada yada, shall bear the designation
"Sonoma County" on the label in a type size not smaller than two millimeters
on containers of more than 187 milliliters or smaller than one millimeter on
containers of 187 milliliters or less." 
 If I recall correctly, this is almost exactly the same as the requirement
for the government warning type size. 
 So the answer seems pretty clear to me: just add "Sonoma County" to the
government warning. 
 September 01, 2010 at 05:00 PM 


Johnonwine said... "They [Honore Comfort and the Sonoma County Vintners]
point to the prestige that the "Napa Valley" designation carries. But this
prestige has nothing to due with the law that demands "Napa Valley", in
addition to simply "Rutherford", be placed on these wines. It has to do
entirely with the promotional effort that has gone into making "Napa Valley"
a place associated with great wines. 
 Such an association will not be made with "Sonoma County" wines...ever. 
 Tom, I would suggest that all Napa wineries, good and bad, benefit from
having Napa Valley on the label; it is indeed a great example of marketing -
what you describe as promotional effort. 
 Perhaps the proponents of the law are not doing the job they were hired to
do, perhaps the SCV needs a more passionate communicator on their marketing
team, putting together the quality promotion you suggest is impossible. 
 Sonoma County, with roughly half of the wineries of Napa County, wins
roughly twice as many gold medals in national and international wine
competitions. That, the fact that their wines cost less on average, and the
wineries are friendlier, less snooty is a compelling story to get out to the
public. 
 Heck, if folks knew all that, maybe folks would be seeking out bottles with
"Sonoma County" on the label. 
 You suggest that this is a bad law, that Sonoma County will never be
associated with high quality wine in the way Napa County is. I disagree, but
I am eternally hopeful, optimistic that the Sonoma County Vintners will
inject a little passion and not more of the same old staid and boring in
their marketing communications. I have confidence they will change, retool,
improve, live up to their responsibilities. 
 I worked selling and marketing Sonoma County wines, I won awards for my
marketing efforts. The story is simple. People are receptive to it. Selling
the magic of Sonoma County wines is easy. 
 That's my take anyway, I don't aim to be contrarian, but I don't mind being
the sole supporter of the law - as a Sonoma County born and bred wine guy. 
 September 03, 2010 at 08:21 PM







H.R. 5034: The Lies, The Facts, The Fictions


With so much at stake for America's alcohol wholesalers and their protected
monopoly status that props up unearned profits, it's no surprise they would
swing for the fences with all their state-granted political power and
attempt to pass H.R.
5034 . This bill, currently in Congress, would give wholesaler
lobbyists the means to turn back the clock on consumer access to wine, lead
to the passage of laws that override federal regulations on alcohol, kill
jobs and business that focus on artisan production of wine, beer and
spirits, punish and dismantle small specialty wine retailers that serve the
consumers that wholesalers won't and override the critical Constitutional
principle of a single American economic union...all for the sake of
protecting wholesaler profits by giving them unprecedented control and
influence over the entire American alcohol industry.
But what is truly remarkable (and likely a result of the wholesalers' hubris
stemming from 75 years of being granted government welfare) is their
willingness to misrepresent facts, ignore the truth, and mislead in their
defense of H.R. 5034.
The recently launched www.hr5034.org
website is the creation of the National Beer Wholesalers Association and and
appears to be the repository all the misrepresentation, ignorance and
misleading ideas supporters of H.R. 5034 could possibly muster.
For the sake of context and setting the record straight, this post address
many of the misrepresentations and misleading claims made at the middlemen's
disingenuous new website.
On their homepage ( http://www.hr5034.org/ )

"Todays system balances competition with public safety to
ensure that consumers can enjoy alcohol without suffering the negative
effects of an unregulated marketplace"


Is there really any competition when the state-based
regulatory system the wholesalers love so much require that producers of
alcohol use a wholesaler to bring their goods to market, meaning that
without use of a wholesaler a producer cannot enter a state's market? It
also means that wholesalers get to decide what consumers drink, not
consumers.


"Unfortunately the effective state-based regulatory system in
the U.S. is under attack. Over the past 10 years,more than 25 states
have faced challenges in federal courts to their authority to regulate
alcohol and their ability to maintain a licensed system of alcohol
controls."
The only challenges to the state-based alcohol regulatory
system are those that discriminate against interstate commerce for
protectionist reasons. Even in the wake of successful suits that
challenged the protectionist laws that wholesalers originally pushed,
the state retained extraordinarily broad authority to maintain a robust
system of alcohol controls.

ON THE "LEARN MORE" PAGE ( http://www.hr5034.org/learn-more ) "Litigation
against the states brought by those wishing to deregulate alcohol for
their own economic interests is of great concern to state alcohol
regulators, state attorneys general, public health advocates and many
others."When the economic interests of producers,
retailers and consumers are horsewhipped by states doing the bidding of
wholesales who receive more government protection and welfare from the
state than any other industry in america, you might expect them to fight
back. As for those that have "concern", let's recall that it's only a
tiny fraction of state alcohol regulators, that there is no formal
support from state attorneys general, only a mere handful of public
health advocates, a selection of recipients of campaign contributions
from wholesalers and wholesalers themselves that support H.R.
5034 .

"According to a recent national poll conducted by the Center
for Alcohol Policy, 79% of respondents support the right of individual
states to set their own laws and regulations surrounding the sale of
alcohol and 87% agree that state and local laws regarding alcohol
regulations should be decided by lawmakers and citizens, not by
judges."
I'm shocked, shocked i say, that the "center for alcohol
policy" is an arm of the national beer wholesalers association and that
it would conduct a poll that finds results supporting those that funded
the poll. Does it get any more illegitimate?

On the "Fact v. Fiction page ( http://www.hr5034.org/fact-vs-fiction ) "FACT: This
bill does not address direct shipping or any specific state alcohol law.
It does not preempt a state law that allows direct shipping. It does not
mandate a direct shipping law where there currently is not one. The bill
does PROTECT a states wine shipping law if someone were to challenge it
in court by providing the shipping law with the same presumption of
validity granted other state alcohol laws."Disingenuous in the extreme. And what's worse, the wholesalers knew
this when they wrote this. H.R. 5034 gives states the ability to pass
laws unchallengeable in court that would discriminate against
out-of-state wine shippers. And we know such laws would be introduced
into various states since wholesalers have seen to it that such laws
have been introduced into state legislatures for the past 20 years. In
fact, H.R. 5034 would allow states to pass laws that make consumers
receipt of a wine by in-state shippers legal while making receipt of a
wine by out-of-state shippers punishable to a greater degree than rape,
home invasion or selling cocaine to children. "Fact:
Protection of a states power to regulate alcohol is not an industry
food fight. "food fight" may be the wrong word.
Better to call the introduction of H.R. 5034 what it is: an attack on
the entire alcohol industry and consumers for the sake of protecting
wholesaler profits. It's no coincidence that brewers large and small,
wineries, spirit producers and importers, retailers, wine education
organizations, wine consumers and free trade organizations all oppose
H.R. 5034.


"This bill does not amend or alter the Federal Alcohol
Administration Act (FAA Act) which provides federal guidelines in many
of these areas"
No it doesn't "amend" the faa act. It overrides it entirely.
To quote from H.R. 5034:
"not withstanding that the state or territorial law
may burden interstate commerce or an act of congress, the state law
shall be upheld..."
This claim by the wholesalers that H.R. 5034 "does not
amend" federal regulations on alcohol is a straight up
misrepresentation. It's like saying "i didn't kick the dog, but rather
his ribs fell on to my boot".


"It is the intent of this language to make clear the
congressional support for the holding in Granholm-prohibiting state laws
that allow an in-state winery to do something a similarly situated
out-of-state winery cannot do. Language that bars facial discrimination
is included in the bill to codify this prohibition"
I have great faith in the wholesalers' ability to mislead.
But this goes beyond even my expectation. The intent of H.R. 5034 is
precisely to overturn the granholm v. Heald supreme court decision that
did away with protectionist state alcohol laws. More importantly, the
very language of H.R. 5034 gives states the explicit right to
discriminate against out-of-state wine shippers. All the state needs to
do is offer the feeblest of justifications. Read for yourself: "state or
territorial regulations may not facially discriminate, without
justification, against out-of-state producers of alcoholic beverages in
favor of in-state producers." one of those "justifications", the bill
states, is maintenance of the "structure of the state alcoholic beverage
distribution system." in other words, discrimination is ok as long as
the discrimination is written into the state's alcohol beverage
distribution laws. Furthermore, note that wine retailers are not even
covered by this duplicitous language on "justification". The state needs
no justification to discriminate against out-of-state retailers. 


"Over half the states have been sued challenging their
alcohol laws. The lawsuits have attacked items such as commonsense
safeguards that require a face-to-face transaction (needed for I.D.
checks) to buy alcohol"
In fact, face-to-face transactions are not needed for I.D
checks. We know this because states have written laws that have gone
unchallenged that require I.D. Checks to be made at the point of
delivery of the wine. 


"Unelected judges should not set alcohol policy; this
responsibility rightly rests with individual state legislatures, as
guaranteed under the 21st Amendment to the U.S. Constitution."
Judges never have set policy. State legislatures always
have. This is the big lie the wholesalers tell. Judges merely tell the
state when they have reached beyond what the 21st Amendment allows.
After that, the state legislatures, in every state where litigation has
affected badly crafted laws, went about legislating a fix. Surely the
wholesalers don't mean to say that state alcohol laws should in no way
be required to abide by the principles in the u.S. Constitution. What
next, will the wholesalers argue the 21st amendment give the states the
right to prohibit women from buying alcohol? Will they argue that state
laws banning African-Americans from being distributors is legal under
the 21st Amendment?


"State laws that raise concerns can and should be addressed
in the state legislature."
Lucky for Americans it wasn't this attitude that ruled the
day when jim crow laws were in place. The wholesalers would have argued
that the racist "separate but equal" philosophy had no business being
litigated and that we should wait for the legislatures that enacted the
racist laws to overturn them with new laws. We have courts precisely to
adjudicate concerns with the fairness and constitutionality of state
laws. But of course, wholesalers know this. They to have brought states
to court over alcohol distribution laws they didn't think were fair or
constitutional. It appears that wholesalers don't like the courts
involved when the decision don't go their way.

The hypocrisy, misleading notions and disinformation being featured at the
wholesalers website supporting H.R. 5034 is staggering. However, they do the
right thing when they invite readers to sign up for emails that will deliver
"the latest developments". I urge all readers to sign up for those emails .
In the mean time, please checkout the website that spurred the wholesalers to
launch their own: http://www.stophr5034.org. It is published by the
Specialty Wine Retailers Association and upon reading through it, you should
find yourself feeling much cleaner and less soiled than after wading through
the misrepresentations of the new wholesaler-sponsored website on H.R.
5034.

> Comments
 Scott said... Too bad there's not a way to shout louder
than all caps. Maybe try more exclamation points....  July 16,
2010 at 06:13 AM 
 Judd Wallenbrock said... Tom -- thanks so much for
keeping us all up to date and informed regarding this silly...but very
real threat...not only to our industry but to our basic rights as
consumers.  July 16, 2010 at 08:14 AM 
Tom Wark said... Scott: Thanks for the tips. Judd: my
pleasure!  July 16, 2010 at 09:42 AM 
Bill Sprow said... Get rid of thewe beer and wine
distributor associations, ie make them illegal, and you would really be
showing a free market work in progress. If I as a resident of Ohio want
to purchase a bottle of Californis wine on line and have it shipped to
me in Ohio without interference from anyone else.  July 16, 2010
at 10:41 AM 
Austin SEO said... Interesting!, Wholesalers
issue.Thanks for sharing your link. I enjoyed reading your post. 
July 17, 2010 at 12:35 PM 
JohnLopresti said... Thought I would post a link with a
cute title related to the post. NB: the article is in a trade journal
available by online subscription $ only.
http://www.law.com/jsp/nlj/PubArticleNLJ.jsp?id=1202463630848&Alcohol_bill_means_happy_hour_for_lobbyists
 July 19, 2010 at 08:53 AM 
Steve said... Tom: Thanks for this passionate polemic, a
foreceful and sorely needed rebuttal to a bogus bill.  July 19,
2010 at 09:10 AM 
Tom said... Seems like some old geezers are filling
their pockets with some major greenbacks getting this bill passed
through. Its a blatant anti-competition bill that will crush the
uniqness of the alchohol/wine industry, kinda like Wal Mart moving into
a town and crushing the boutique shops. Since I live in Texas Ill have
to resort to buying O'Douls and Welchs grape juice after the Baptists
take control of the law in the State legislature. Dont even get me
started on the still enacted Blue Laws of this state (cant buy liqour on
Sundays)...  July 19, 2010 at 09:12 AM 
r said... Wow! I am speechless. I will not even waste my
time rebutting you point by point because you do not have a clue in many
instances what you are talking about. You do have a few valid points but
they too may be predicated on false premise, I do not claim to be the
all knowing expert. By using the same sensational BS Tactics you rail
against, instead of a balanced and fair assessment you render the
entirety of your rant incredible. In short the wine has to go from point
A to B in some way. Do you work for FedEx? It sounds like you would
prefer you government welfare to go there instead? Wholesalers compete
against each other... perhaps you forgot. They do not operate
monopolies. In Oregon for instance there are about 60 wholesalers
competing for partnerships on both the supply and the demand side,
hardly the ideal monopoly situation. In most cases where state laws
allow shipping you can get a bottle of wine shipped from the winery of
your choice. A very important point to remember: While large "commercial
wineries" (Factory wine producers) may have the ability to market their
own wine, smaller growers whom you seem to be so concerned about do not
have the proper infrastructure to allow wine sales on line in many
cases, let alone having their own transportation infrastructure. They
are experts at farming and producing wine, which is what they likely
prefer to do in most cases.  July 27, 2010 at 09:08 PM 
alean said... wine facts are really good
http://www.facts-about-wine.info/
 arunrob@gmail.com  October 13, 2010 at 12:39 PM 
crystal ortizz said... Quite informative blog.My friends
would definitely appreciate knowing these facts. As being a student such
blogs help me a lot.It is rather interesting for me to read this blog.
Thanks for it. I like such topics and anything that is connected to this
matter. I definitely want to read more on that blog soon. 
December 06, 2010 at 05:11 AM 
dissertation writing service said... This is my Good
luck that I found your post which is according to my search and topic, I
think you are a great blogger, thanks for helping me outta my problem..
 December 07, 2010 at 12:22 AM 








Facebook Fans: You Get What You Pay For
24 Mar 2010
by Rick

Take a look at the Facebook Fan Pages of some brands and what you see is not a
pretty picture. Oh, the numbers look good, but when you dig a little deeper a
different picture emerges. Walls filled with off topic conversations at best,
vile language and real antipathy for the brand at worst. What happened? Wasn't
having thousands of fans supposed to be a good thing?
Well, yes and no. Sure, it's great having several hundred thousands fans. But how
did you come to get those fans? Did you earn them through fantastic customer
service, fulfilling the brand promise, providing value to the community in an
authentic and passionate voice, or did you run a Facebook ad campaign and hit
the broadcast airwaves with a promotion?
Let's look at  my old favorite , TGI Friday's:
 If you can see this, then you might need a Flash Player upgrade or you need to
install Flash Player if it's missing. Get Flash Player
from Adobe. 
Remember that ad? Pretty cool, right? In fact, as I recall, they got over 1
million Facebook fans. Google TGI Friday's Fan Woody and it looks pretty good.
But then something not so awesome happened. All those fans wanted their free
burgers and they wanted them now! TGI Friday's completely lost control of the
page and eventually doled out a lot of free burgers.Now from a short term
perspective I'm sure they did ok on the deal. People came in and ate their food.
But they could have accomplished that with coupons in the mail, the newspaper or
by an email list. But they decided to go the Social Media route.
Now, let's take a look at what the Friday's FanWoody Facebookpage looks like
today:
Whoops! It's gone.
Apparently Woody and his
900,000+ fans went poof . How come? I'm guessing it had something to do
with the venom and general anarchy the page had created by buying fans rather
than growing them. A TGI
Friday's Facebook page does exist, with roughly a third of the fans they
used to have. TGI Friday's pretty much had to spray Agent Orange on
their relationship with 600,000 people.
It's easy to pick on TGI Friday's but they certainly aren't the only guilty
party. I think plenty of brands have heard the siren call of Facebook ads. The
ability to target your demo is really terrific, but you're in danger of creating
a relationship with fans that ultimately is built on a "what have you done for
me lately" foundation.
First, you essentially bought these fans. You paid Facebook for the right to
target them. Then in the case of TGI Friday's or other brands that offer free
product or discount coupons, you are essentially buying them again. This sets up
a pattern where the consumer now expects to be rewarded for being your fan with
a tangible item, that is, free stuff. That's not a bonus item, it's now a
standard part of the agreement. Want me as a fan? Give me free stuff.
The point of Social Media isn't to distribute coupons and a real fan wants to
engage with a brand for a whole host of reasons, often free / discounted product
is the least of these reasons. I'm not saying that special bonuses, or 'surprise
and delight' offers aren't ever a good thing. I think when used properly they
can be terrific. What do I mean by used properly? As a reward for people who
have engaged with the brand in a meaningful way. Send us a picture of you
wearing a brand t-shirt and sure, you've earned a free sandwich. Recruit some
friends and I'm happy to give you all some coupons. But when fans enter the
relationship feeling they are entitled to free samples and you're in
trouble.




 Kathy Sharpe says: April 18, 2010 at 1:02 pm

About time there was some acknowledgement of the true value of fans. Even if
you have 3 million+ fans and they are all well behaved citizens what is the
real marketing value?










How soon is now? Lebron James Makes His Decision: The A-Rod
Route
8 Jul 2010
by Rick

Lebron James is an extremely talented basketball player. He's also a very astute
individual who understands how to use the media -- and various communication
channels -- to his advantage. He's also managed to surround himself with people
who understand business, but I'm starting to wonder if he's lost a bit of
understanding of American culture.
Lebron didn't play college basketball, he went straight from high school to the
pros, and since joining the Cleveland Cavaliers he's won exactly zero NBA
champions. He's a free agent now and tonight he made his decision about which
team he's going to play for in a very public manner, with a live announcement on
ESPN.
Earlier this week Lebron jumped on Twitter and quickly gained a massive
following. This morning he announced:

Lebron James was of course a trending topic and that hashtag was burning as
well.
But I'm starting to wonder if Lebron isn't painting himself into a corner, and
has maybe misread how quickly sentiment can change.
Sure, Shaquille O'Neal once said, "I've won
at every level but college and pro," but Shaq was always a larger than
life (literally) character who was outgoing and had a great relationship with
fans. That's one of the reasons
Shaq's been a huge hit on Twitter . Lebron doesn't have that sort of
relationship with fans. I think an appropriate comparison might be Alex
Rodriguez. An incredibly talented player -- perhaps the best in the game -- who
went a very long time without winning a ring.
By making his announcement in this public way, Lebron has only heaped more
pressure on himself. Ask A-Rod how the media can turn on you when you put
yourself above your teammates, above the game. James now finds himself in the
following position:
1. Winning a title is expected immediately wherever he goes
2. Not winning a title will be seen as a massive disappointment
3. Winning a title will result in some saying that he couldn't do it alone
4. He's put himself in a position where if he leaves Cleveland, every other city
(and Cleveland) will be rooting against him
Sounds just like Alex Rodriguez, doesn't it? I'm no longer the target demographic
for most of the products Lebron endorses, but you know what matters to me?
Winning championships. Not live prime time press conferences, not
self-aggrandizing twitter hashtags and not quitting on his teammates during the
playoffs.
Let's see what the future holds for Lebron. We know he'll be rich, but how will
he be viewed by fans across the country. Perhaps Lebron should have hired a
Chief Culture Officer along with his coterie of other advisors. If I
were to fulfill that role for him, I would have told him to go low key with this
decision and let it be led by his new team. Make sure it's clear that the team
comes first and that he's looking forward to beingpart of the team.That the
only thing that matters is winning a championship.
That thatwas the main factor.
Update:
Lebron chooses the Miami Heat and the similarities to A-Rod continue,
with Dwyane Wade playing the role of Derek Jeter.
Update 2: And so it begins...




One Comment

 Dan Winkler says: July 9, 2010 at 1:29 am

Heatenfreude?









Wednesday, 26 May 2010


The effect of not being on vacation in Italy on a man with a tall stack of
papers to grade.

As you probably noticed, my wife is currently on vacation without me - which is different
than a vacation from me, although given how frequently insufferable I am,
I could understand the appeal of suchin the le Marche region of Italy, which is immediately
south of Tuscany and full of communists. As evidence of how thoroughly corrupt the region is, I
present a picture (courtesy of her) of the cabin she'll be staying in free of
charge until July:
 That's the view she'll be writing her dissertation to the next two months. The region is poor
(though not so much as I thought) and
poorly serviced by internet and wifi: there's a router up the hill from her which sometimes
provides wifi, but only then into a loft too unbearably hot to occupy during the day. So the
only opportunity I have to talk to her (via Skype) is that last hour in the late evening when
the loft cools enough to be habitableprovided, of course, that the wifi strength that evening
is strong enough to establish and maintain a connection. Which it frequently isn't. But this
post isn't about how melancholy I become when I haven't heard from her by 3 p.m. (which would be
midnight over there), because anyone who follows me on Facebook already knows that and because this post concerns Urbino, not my daily descent into emo. 
I've written about Urbino before , but because the wife is providing me with such dazzling photographs
of the city, I feel compelled to do so again. As I noted in that post, Urbino is not a
"built" city so much as an "evolved" one. (The De Landa seems to
have become an unwitting
theme of late.) Of course it was built , but it was built vertically
within the city walls, meaning that new buildings were constructed atop
existing ones like so:
 The effect is the sort of architecture one only finds in dreams or representations of them,
like the one in the finale of the fourth season of Buffy the Vampire
Slayer , wherein Joss Whedon took advantage of contiguous three-walled film sets to depict
Xander Harris moving seamlessly from the upstairs bathroom at Buffy's house:

Into the Initiative's underground bunker: 
Then, from the bathroom-Initiative across the hall:
Into his parent's basement:
And into an ice cream truck:
Past the the come-hither lesbians:
Through the back of the ice cream truck:
By means of a passage: 
That returns him to you guessed it his parents' basement:
In which he exits the same door he originally entered it from Buffy's house only to end up in
the halls of Sunnydale High and (shortly) an Apocalypse Now parody:
 The only difference between what Whedon did and Urbino is that you could travel through the
side streets of Urbino with a camera and accomplish such feats (minus the Coppola) without needing to cut once . Because without leaving officially sanctioned
lanes of transportation, pedestrians can venture into and through outdoor kitchens, university
departments, the central hallway of apartment buildings, and so on. This photograph of the
dueling signs for the Hotel Raffaello the wife snapped the other day typifies the way the city
feels:
 You can enter the hotel either through the door with the green awning or the second story
window of an adjacent building. (This isn't technically true, but it accurately describes how it
feels to those unaccustomed to the city's geography.) The city is even
more disturbing, though, because of the tendency of its sidewalks to transform into recessed
brick ladders when the street becomes too steep for bipeds
: That picture is not from the current set, as the relative quality attests, and if I remember
correctlyby which I mean, "recognize the fingerprints of amateur photographers the world
over who think a 'good' photograph is one framed in the most dull and predictable way
possible"snapped by me.* I only mention that because in 2002 I visited the city with the
wife and, as you probably guessed, the real point of this post was to indulge in a bit of
vicarious vacationing before returning to a stack of ungraded papers that no amount of actual
grading seems to have the power to reduce. 
*If it wasn't, even Homer nods? No, but seriously, if that's not a picture I actually took,
it's exactly the sort I relentlessly take, whereas check out the wife's chops above: the woman has
an eye .



If she is working, she is not on vacation. AND this time apart will make you stronger and
make you realize marriage is work and you need to put some in or the marriage dies and you are
left with an empty hole in your heart. I know this is over kill, but you need to get out of
the funk you are in and grade the papers and finish the course so you can get some down time
and catch up on your sleep.
 Posted by: alkau | Wednesday, 26 May 2010 at 11:11 AM


have a happy vacation that place looks fascinating I should get a passport
 Posted by: happyfeet | Wednesday, 26 May 2010 at 09:57 PM


happy, I don't normally like to contradict you, but in this case I must: I'm not the one on
vacation, sadly. I'm having to live it through my beautiful, vacationing wife.
 Posted by: SEK | Wednesday, 26 May 2010 at 10:18 PM


oh. Sorry I got confuzzled.

I can't wait to get Alzheimer's so I can watch Buffy again like it was the first time.
 Posted by: happyfeet | Saturday, 29 May 2010 at 12:23 PM









United carbon offset disappointment
April 27, 2009 9:08 AM


I'm a big believer in carbon offsets (not so much the cap and trade game, but in
the simple internalize-your-externality-sort). I talk about it in my Green
Culture talk. IMHO, we all have an ethical obligation to offset our carbon
footprint -- now. My wife and I have been doing so for a couple years. We're a
couple months late buying credits for last year.

One reason we're late (other than the obvious) is the insane complexity in
calculating it well. I travel way too much. That's the biggest chunk to cover.
But to calculate it accurately requires churning through a pile of flights. I
could estimate, no doubt. But I want something more accurate.

So I was really happy to see on the United page an announcement of a "Carbon
Offset Program." What I expected it to be was a simple way to at least know what
the total carbon footprint from your flights for some period was (after all,
they have all the data), and ideally, a simple way to buy offsets.

No such luck. United has simple linked to one of the million places where you can
calculate a per flight carbon cost. It
allows you to input total miles flown, but its Mileage Plus page doesn't give you
total miles flown, it gives you the
total added to your account (included bonuses, etc.)

Looking forward to version 2.0.

Posted by Lawrence Lessig on April 27, 2009 9:08 AM



Comments (14) April 27, 2009 9:42 AM

Peter Collopy: Dopplr has a nice carbon calculator built-in. You have to
enter all your trips, but I think it's generally an exciting system if you
don't mind the Little Brother surveillance.


April 27, 2009 9:49 AM lessig: GREAT point. I do enter all mine in. Perfect
solution.


April 27, 2009 9:53 AM
Padraic: Why aren't you a supporter of cap & trade? Isn't a mandatory
scheme going to moresuccesful than voluntary measures?


April 27, 2009 10:20 AM lessig: I favor a mandatory scheme -- internalize
your externality. I am suspicious of cap & trade. It seems like a
complicated partial version of that, created by the same genius quants who
gave us the mess on wall street, that is designed to generate large fees
finance types. My sense is for a simpler system.


April 27, 2009 12:07 PM Padraic Ryan: Re: cap & trade - you shouldn't use
the financial crisis as an excuse to write off all of economics. A cap &
trade system worked very well at reducing sulfur dioxide pollution in the
US, finance types and all. You're right that a carbon tax is definitely
simpler, but there are upsides to cap & trade as well (such as the fact
that the market will drive the price up, whereas a tax won't increase unless
Congress wants it to).

Re: your green culture talk, I think you are misappropriating the Gore clip:
isn't he saying that your money would be better spent on political
candidates and organizations that push for mandatory internalizing of
externalities (changing the laws) instead of on carbon offsets (changing the
lightbulbs)? My problem with carbon offsets and other voluntary measures is
that given the finite amount of money, energy and attention we have to push
for the environment, I feel like the opportunity cost of these measures is
too high compared to policy-oriented actions, the citizen role that Gore
referred. For example, Earth Hour would be much more productive if it were a
global rally for carbon taxes; instead we de-politicize it and entertain the
idea that voluntarily turning off lights will stop climate change.

I'm a big fan of your work on IP and corruption, but I'm skeptical of these
initial ventures into the environmental arena...


April 27, 2009 12:17 PM mark: "I am suspicious of cap & trade. It seems
like a complicated partial version of that, created by the same genius
quants who gave us the mess on wall street, that is designed to generate
large fees finance types. My sense is for a simpler system."

That just shows you do not fully understand the cap and trade model....or the
global financial crisis.


April 27, 2009 2:51 PMCathy: When you book a route on United it tells you how
many miles it will accrue, pre-bonus, for each leg. (I use it to calculate
how many I'll get towards my premier status.) It's a tiny link they move
around from time to time, but look for it near where the seat selection
option is. You should see this on a screen before you purchase the ticket,
and possibly also after.


April 27, 2009 4:45 PM Brad Templeton: When I got to United's site it has two
columns, one for true miles flown (sort of) and one for elite bonus. So cut
and paste into your spreadsheet and it should be fine. However, it does show
500 for the short haul flights, but I bet those are mostly L.A. so you can
fill in the real mileage to L.A. on those, it should not take long. April
27, 2009 6:03 PMYaacov Iland: I'd check into the effectiveness of carbon
offsets, particularly tree plantations, before spending money on them:
http://www.newint.org/features/2006/07/01/keynote/


April 28, 2009 9:03 AM Jardinero1: The only way to reduce your carbon
footprint, is to reduce your carbon footprint, period. Paying someone else
to do something they are doing, already, does not reduce your carbon
footprint one bit.

If you don't believe that and still insist on paying someone else to consume
less, then please consider paying me. My wife and I telecommute. We rarely
travel. I ride my bike to the grocery store. We cook from whole ingredients
and never eat processed or prepared foods. Both of our cars are high mpg and
rarely used. They are both ten years old and we probably won't replace them
for another ten years. I just finished insulating my house and installed
high efficiency windows and HVAC. I keep the thermostat high in the summer
and low in the winter. All the light bulbs are fluorescent, except for the
dimmer above the dining room table. I removed all the turf from my property
and replaced it with vines and perennials. There are twenty three trees on
the property sequestering CO2 on a continuous basis. No motorized equipment
is required to maintain my garden which is now over ten thousand square feet
of CO2 consuming plants.

I would gladly accept the sum of fifteen thousand dollars from Prof Lessig or
anyone else to offset his carbon heavy lifestyle. In return, I would submit
to an audit of my lifestyle and I would issue him a certificate stating the
amount of his carbon offset.


April 29, 2009 4:00 AM Eric the Red: Carbon credits: indulgences for the
non-Catholic crowd. More modern, but just as dumb.


April 29, 2009 7:18 AM pb: "we all have an ethical obligation to offset our
carbon footprint -- now"


There is nothing so dangerous as someone with an abundance of
self-righteousness but very little knowledge.

Carbon offsets 'harm environment'
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/6378471.stm Tuesday, 20 February
2007, 17:31 GMT


Jutta Kill, of the Forests and the European Union Resource Network (FERN),
was the most vehement opponent of the practice, arguing it probably did more
harm than good.

Carbon offsetting was "an unbelievably inefficient way of reducing
emissions," she argued, and its effects were impossible to verify.

In addition, "More than half" of the money given to companies selling carbon
offsets went on research and administration costs, "benefiting not the
climate but the burgeoning consultancy industry".

"We believe it is worse than nothing because it creates the illusion, or the
impression, in the public that action is being taken, while we are not
really addressing the task at hand, significantly reducing greenhouse gas
emissions," Ms Kill told MPs.


Illusions are powerful around here, it seems. Professor - stop listening to
your "intuitions" and do some basic research!



May 14, 2009 2:45 PM Jason Sperling: It's nice to see feedback on the United
program. I've posted your feedback on my carbon offsets news blog.

Currently many companies are reticent to putting something in their purchase
path as an upsell, just as they are reticent to putting anything in their
purchase path. The cost for large companies to make any updates to their
e-commerce sites is significant, another factor in keeping the type of
program you'd like from being available. Additionally, there is a reluctance
to share the data required for accurate emissions measurement due to
perceived potential risks, possibly related to future regulatory
concerns.

The technology is certainly available. When the type of program you imagine
IS put in place, the results have been very good. For example ShopGreen
Merchant Reports 90% of customers 'go green'


June 10, 2009 12:18 PM jason: check out this great new idea to offset

http://www.treehugger.com/files/2009/06/man-auctions-own-carbon-offsets-on-ebay.php

Here's the link to the auction

http://cgi.ebay.com/ebaymotors/ws/eBayISAPI.dll?ViewItem&item=320381623555&viewitem=&sspagename=STRK%3AMESELX%3AIT












This is the first in a series of articles by guest blogger The
Apocalyptic Housewife .



Somewhere in California, a blighted, mosquito-vector abandoned property is
about to get an echinacea dose via seedbomb.

Seedbombing combines elements of childhood disgruntled mudbomb-hurling; the
balance of meticulousness and zen that good gardeners possess; and my own
forte, the invisibility and vigilance of a sniper.

It also requires a certain attitude. The first step to seedbombing is: 1.
Understand that a job worth doing is worth doing crappily.

You will fuck it up . Live with this. Embrace it. 
Nothing worth
doing was learned perfectly the first time. If Mother Nature herself were
perfect, she wouldn't need us urban urchins to help cover her
scars with flowering seeds.

Here's where we started -


Gift seeds of California Poppy via Jessica Reeder's mom. Thanks,
MamaHun.


2. Mix in seeds.

Use seeds of any kind, even dumpster-salvaged ones, or the ones that might be too
old for the garden.

You can mix them with a 30/30/40 mix of potting soil, worm casings and clay. Or
you could go out to the shed and grab a few handfuls of that sod mix you got at
that estate sale last year and get to mixing.


NOTE: Cover your work area. Dust can fly into your mouth and
eyes very easily. If the fertilizer in the mix is what I think it is, that
wouldn't be pretty. Use gloves to break up the soil with your
fingers.


3. Make bombs.

Form the mix into balls of any size from sling-shot-pellet up to softball.
You're going to be throwing them. Customize it yourself.

Mine were more or less matzoh-ball size and shape, out of habit. This worked out
pretty well.

Allow to dry overnight, or until they're solid enough for the next
step.
4. Throw.

Today, I kept it simple. I chose one abandoned property a few minutes from
downtown, and two vacant lots. The leftovers went onto the jungles alongside the
freeway offramps.


First lesson learned -- you need at least two people to seedbomb from a
vehicle . The first responsibility should be driving safely. I found this
hard to do while also avoiding cops, dealing with the camera and the car window,
scoping out angles of approach for throwing, etc.

I ended up with a broken fingernail and dirt all over my lap. Also, a perfect
strike. But you'll have to take my word because a camera at that moment
would have been crazy.

Second Lesson -- keep the seedbombs in a shallow covered container .
You want both tidiness and easy access. Plus, those things are crumbly. I made
eight; the last two were totally pulverized after being jostled in a paper bag
for half an hour.

And the last lesson -- have fun . It's play. Seedbombing is a
hit-or-miss way for change to take root, pun intended. It's chlorophyll
graffiti. No one I know is getting digg'd or favrd yet for throwing color
and scent around the ghetto. Do it to see how it feels. You may want to keep
checking on your flowers (I promise I will) or you might get an idea to do
something else completely unexpected (I did).

Enzo Angolini spike heels found by serendipity at St Paul's Thrift for
$3.98. Sexy, non?


For example, make smaller wildflower seedbombs and carefully 'plant' them
in a meridian by making holes in the ground with your heel and then gently tamping
the dirt over them with your sole.

This is also good practice for looking lost and cluelessly invisible. More on that in
future posts.

5. Enjoy.


Earth is my friend, like that old classmate who you keep forgetting to drop a note to
on Facebook.


When I took a victory lap and hand-wash break in the mall, I was happy, not in a
smug superior way, but in the knowledge that I had avenged myself against the
whole Sunday-at-the-mall culture that I felt smothered by. I did it by throwing
flowers all along those places no one goes, but where our planet's future
lives.

There is one over-riding message to this -- Quit being such a goddamned
perfectionist. Yes, yes, I know, you know of much better places
to never throw those seedbombs you haven't made. You could get better soil
if you put it on the shopping list. You undoubtedly write much better and could
have a real serious article with awesome non-blurry pictures taken by a person
who actually can get the timer to work for a goddamn change. The actions that
you never do are absolutely perfectly effective, in your imagination.
But my actions accomplished something today.

Which brings us back to: 1. A job worth doing is worth doing crappily.

This blog is the digital proof.




6 Responses to "The Apocalyptic Housewife Goes Seedbombing"



Kate 25. Nov, 2009 at 3:37 pm

Did this with my aunt in Griffith Park after the last bout of fires.
Didn't know there was a term for it- my mom and aunt have been seed
bombing for years. They'll be glad to know it is catching on among the
under-60 set.




Raggedy Anarchy 25. Nov, 2009 at 5:46 pm

Thanks for commenting, Kate. Your mom and aunt sound great.

I used to see this old scary dude walking around checking the trees in
Griffith Park for Dutch Elm Disease. Turns out he had been a brilliant
biology student before losing derferment and going to Vietnam. Thanks for
making me remember him.

We are everywhere.




Summer 26. Nov, 2009 at 10:52 am

Loved this!




brian 14. Dec, 2009 at 8:10 pm

Didn't know there was a name for this. Awesome idea though. My wife and
I did this when we lived in Texas ... planted blue bonnets in a state
park. Yeah, I know, "Texas has plenty of blue bonnets," you
say ...

Well we thought they could use more.




Jessica Reeder 15. Dec, 2009 at 9:08 am

Hey Brian, thanks for stopping by! That was nice of you. 

There is no such thing as too many flowers. Well done.

We just made seedbombs for our holiday gift baskets; they're a mix of
flowers from the yard, heavy on the poppies.




I am not nice, young, hip, white, rich, educated, suburban or any of the other
things you are unconsciously assuming anyone who loves the earth must be. My
discontent is the mother of invention, and by invention, I mean creative
re-purposing.

I love bringing apt quotations and poems to awkward occasions the way another
guest would bring a box of See's. Actually, I do that, too. Anyone who doesn't
have a sweet tooth is bound to have a mean streak, and freegan chocolates are
perfectly salvagable most of the time.


That's me. I'm the Apocalyptic Housewife. I take pictures and have ideas and
enjoy my thoughts and try to do a little something less about consuming and more
about redemption every day. It makes me a little nicer.







Tayari's Blog: There's A Sucker Born Every Minute

Posted by Tayari Jones on March 3, 2008 10:57 PM 



And apparently, they all go to work in publishing.

This has been a bad week for liars. First the holocaust survivor who said she was literally
raised by wolves turns out to be just a regular, if depressed, person. Now, Margaret
Seltzer, the author of Love and
Consequences , the highly acclaimed "memoir" about her life as a half Native American/half
White gang banger, has been been explosed as a fraud.

In the vividly told book, Ms. Seltzer wrote about her African-American foster brothers,
Terrell and Taye, who joined the Bloods gang when they were 11 and 13. She chronicled her
experiences making drug deliveries for gang leaders at age 13 and how she was given her first
gun as a birthday present when she was 14. Ms. Seltzer told The Times last week, One of the
first things I did once I started making drug money was to buy a burial plot.

It's like a satire of a satire. This is my favorite line in the whole NYT article: "Sarah
McGrath, the editor at Riverhead who worked with Ms. Seltzer for three years on the book, said
she was stunned to discover that the author had lied." Gotta love that understatement and comic
timing.

But seriously, you may remember an article last summer that appered in TimeOut New York
about matters of race in publishing. (My post on the subject here .) This
was one of most important quotes from the article: Invariably, says Craig, a
black-themed book will come up for consideration, and there wont be anyone of color to put in
an opinion, or therell be one, who shouldnt bear the burden alone. So we all pretend were
experts. Maybe Im the only one whos embarrassed by that. The end result of such
roundtables, one can only fear, could be that the only books depicting people of color that
get published are those that do not challenge white assumptions.


I can't help but wonder if Ms. Seltzer's book with all it's far-fetched,
tales-from-the-urban-jungle flair, would have passed the smell test were it read by a more
diverse panel of editors. 







Comment #1, by carleen 
I read that article in the Times and IMMEDIATELY thought it was going to be a hoax. But then
I thought, surely after all the others, she had been vetted to heaven and back. Ha! Guess I'm
a sucker too.
March 3, 2008 11:20 PM



Comment #2, by Michael Fischer 
Um, wow. That is ridiculous.
March 3, 2008 11:43 PM



Comment #3, by Sarah Schulman
I wonder why they didn't present their books as novels.
March 4, 2008 01:39 PM



Comment #4, by Sarah Schulman 
I wonder why they didn't present their books as novels.
March 4, 2008 01:41 PM










Noshin' at the Tupelo Honey Cafe | Plus, how to get great service in
busy restaurants

23 Mar., 2010 





By the time I got to Asheville, I was nearing the end of my journey and the
bottom of my wallet. The last thing on my mind was spending money: it was
beautiful outside, and there were free things to do everywhere.

But. When I'd posted on Facebook that I was coming to town, no fewer than three people told me
I just had to visit the Tupelo Honey Cafe . So I checked their website, and instantly fell in
love:


"Tupelo Honey Caf opened in downtown Asheville in 2000, an early pioneer in
the farm to fork movement and an active advocate for the independent
restaurant landscape that pervades the city. Our food is fresh, made from
scratch, sassy and scrumptious. Our cuisine salutes our love of Southern
traditions at the table, but like the good people of Asheville, marches to
its own drum. The result is a unique riff on Southern favorites." tupelohoneycafe.com


I was convinced but I wasn't alone. On a sunny Sunday afternoon, the waiting list
was an hour long. After hemming and hawing and assessing my food stash
(contents: 10 saltines), I decided to go for it anyway.

By the time I finally got a seat at the counter, I was starved. It took me about
thirty seconds to pick out the Charleston Chicken Sandwich: "grilled
marinated free-range chicken breast on sourdough with melted havarti, romaine
lettuce and cranberry mayonnaise". Free range? Cranberry? Havarti? Yes, I
could dig it.

While I waited for the food, I checked out the back of the store where Tupelo
Honey Cafe hawks their homestyle wares: preserves, pickles, salsa, honey,
t-shirts, aprons and all sorts of mini-advertisements for the restaurant.

I've visited plenty of farm-to-fork restaurants, and this one may be the best
I've seen at self-marketing. There's nothing wrong with it: the food in those
jars is probably delicious, though I question whether the $10 tupelo honey had
to come from Florida or if it's produced locally.

Either way, it's nice to see a restaurant built on ethics that also happens to be
incredibly busy. Some of that is surely due to good marketing, but the real
reason for its popularity is this:

That sandwich was so good, I found myself eating slower and slower with each bite
to savor it more completely. The potatoes were light and un-greasy; the flavors
were perfectly balanced; the chicken was juicy and rich; and let's be honest
here, I'm always happier eating dead animals when I know they've lived a good
life. I found myself silently thanking the chicken for its delicious
contribution. Thank you, chicken. I will never forget you.

I stopped eating halfway through, not because I was full. I stopped so I could
take the rest home and taste it again later.


On another topic, I made a discovery there in the Tupelo Honey Cafe, one which
I'd like to share with you now.

If you're going to a busy restaurant and want great service, bring a camera. Take
a few photos of the menu, the kitchen, the food.

No sooner had I taken the above photo, when a server (not even my server)
appeared at my elbow. Later when I stopped eating and lifted my napkin from my
lap, it took approximately three seconds for someone to take my food away to be
boxed up.

Now, I'm not saying the service before my camera-flash was bad, because it was
awesome. But wow, it sure improved once I appeared to be some sort of food
critic or travel writer.

Which, it just so happens, I am. But even if you're not, try this out sometime. I
can't guarantee it'll work, but I personally will do it againand probably back
it up with a stellar review, just like the one I've given the Tupelo Honey
Cafe.

Everybody wins.

Okay, that's it! I could talk about Asheville for weeks, but it's time to move
on. Next stop: sunny Tennessee, where I get down on The Farm.







Save the World, Ride a Bike
a visit to Troy Bike Rescue

30. Sep, 2009

This post is the first of a three-part series on bike culture. Come back Friday to read about
anarchy,
bike jousting, and two-wheeled social protest .

Remember when you got your first bike? Was it a Christmas present, or maybe a birthday gift?
Remember how much fun you used to have on that bike, how fast you went, how great it felt?
Well, these days, most kids want an Xbox for their birthday; their parents ride around in
cars with seatbelts, talking on their
phones . Cycling is a thing of the past: a sport, a hobby, but rarely a mode of
transportation. But I'm here to tell you: riding your bike is still fun, and
still fast, and it's the cheapest and most socially responsible workout you'll ever
get .
And there are no two ways about it: if you give a kid a bike, that kid will ride.
In Troy, New York, I met one Andrew Lynn. He's somewhat of a man
brain
trust , and one of his best creations is the Troy Bike Rescue . It started in 2001, when Andrew
would ride around town pulling bikes out of dumpsters. He started hosting work parties with
friends in his backyard, teaching them to fix their bikes and helping them get started riding.
Slowly but surely, the circle grew and Andrew's backyard parties became weekly workshops.
When Andrew decided to leave town for a few years' schooling in NYC, friends and cohorts took
over operations. By the time Andrew returned, Troy Bike Rescue (let's call it TBR) had a life
of its own. These days it's an established club, run by volunteers and donations, turning
trashed bikes into treasures. Its influence now includes a legitimate downtown storefront; a
sister shop in Albany ( Albany Bicycle
Coalition ); movie screenings and pro-cycling political events; and a dedicated core crew
that keeps everything rolling.

TBR's customers run the gamut, from businessmen to street kids to college students to
families. The one thing they have in common? They get it.

This group understands the value of a bicycle: more than just transportation, a
bike is a statement against fossil fuels. More than a toy, it's an equalizer that allows poor
kids to ride with rich. More than a hobby, it's a way of traveling through the world that lets
you interact, use your muscles, breathe fresh air -- all for the cost of a free dumpster
bike.


When I visited the TBR shop, it was packed with frames, wheels, gears, chains, handlebars,
kids, and anarchist art (the space is being donated by some supporters who are also
anti-capitalist activists).
TBR hosts workshops twice a week. For a few hours, the doors are open to anyone who walks in.
Tools are available, and volunteers will help with advice and knowledge. Parts can be had for a
pittance, and you can pick out your own bike from the stacks and racks of machines filling the
space.

The main focus of TBR, however, is not selling bikes. The idea is to give people a workspace
and teach them how to maintain their own bicycle. Self-sufficiency is a major tenet of the bike
movement, and Troy Bike Rescue is training self-reliant individuals of all stripes.
All around me, college students and bike punks tinkered with their machines. An older man
asked for tips on tuning his racer. A young kid came in to say his last bike was stolen and he
needed a new one (and, despite Andrew's stern reprimand that he couldn't just walk in every
week and leave with a free bike, he did just that).

A dad came in with his three kids, all of whom left with snazzy rides -- but first, they all
sat down and worked on their new wheels together.
And as we left at the end of the workshop, a woman walked up to Andrew. "I love what you do,"
she said. "I have a whole bunch of bikes to give you."
See, ultimately TBR is about more than just bicycles. It's about building community, and
triggering a quiet but inexorable social movement. This is not the world's first bike
collective; in fact it's only one of many that have stealthily sprung up around America. These
collectives are not waiting for change to happen: they're creating it through small, positive,
peaceful actions. You too can change the world: all you have to do is ride a
bike.
Try This at Home: Ride Around
Fall is here, which (in most places) means great riding weather. What are you waiting
for?
Bikes are cheap: you can get one at your local thrift store for $5-50. It doesn't have to be
perfect, just good enough to get you places. So pick one up, and ride it to the end of your
block! Then keep going!
Even if your life requires four wheels, you can use a bike for local errands. Ride it to the
corner store when you need milk, instead of driving across town to the grocery store. (Don't
like the milk they sell? Tell the store owner what you like, and see if he'll carry it. Now
you're changing the world.)
On weekends, instead of driving to the park, hop on your bike and go exploring. It doesn't
have to be a workout: you can just toodle around town and look at stuff. Or, if you're a gym
buff, trade a workout for a bike ride. Unless you live on a major highway, odds are you can
ride straight from your front porch to someplace interesting.
On vacation, rent a bike instead of a scooter (or, God forbid, a Segway). It's cheaper, and
much better for the local flora&fauna.
Still not convinced? Then think of it this way: by riding your bike instead of driving your
car, you're reducing your consumption of fossil fuels. You can even calculate the money you
save on gas, and keep it in a jar for a rainy day.

Want to get involved? Bike clubs tend to be pretty anarchic, but if you look around your
community you'll find both bike riders and shop owners who ride for change. Can't find a bike
community? Start your own!









5 Responses to "Save the World, Ride a Bike"




Karen Turnbull 01. Oct, 2009 at 12:54 pm

what a great article, i will be passing it on. In the meantime you might like this blog post
i cam across: http://blog.sophianetwork.org.uk/2009/09/women-tackling-climate-change.html



Raggedy Annarchy 01. Oct, 2009 at 12:59 pm

Tried/shared/re-tweeted, with pleasure! My old thrift-store basket-handle witch- bike was
glad to see the light of day again. Even kept Pansy in the basket as my Toto.
Bike rescue is not just for kids. One of my dear friends who can't drive to due to combat
injuries had her ride stolen while we were sharing a beer in broad daylight last weekend.
Shame, shame. Her partner is a peace corps alum who also works in a bike shop. I passed along
this article to her, and she suggest that when we start our own bike rescue, we'll do like the
U.S. in East Timor did and graffiti Delta Bike Rescue on all the chassis.
Fall is exactly 79% more tingly when experienced by bike.








Farming on Sand: The trouble with "eating local" on Cape Cod |
Uprooted, an eco/travel blog

This is part 4 of a 4-part series on tourism's impact on Cape
Cod. Read about death 
& carnage in the shell shop , find out about the eco-friendly 
food scene , look at the pretty pretty sunset , or continue on... 

David DeWitt doesn't look like a farmer. With his long hair, scruffy beard and
t-shirt, he'd fit in more at a Phish show than behind a plow. But appearances
are deceiving, and David's comfy mien belies a passion that is influencing the
culture of northern Cape Cod.
To wit: in 2009, David helped launch the Truro Ag Fair
 -- an event that exceeded all expectations and brought
huge crowds to local farmers' booths. He runs the Rock Spray nursery, a
Certified Natural provider of evergreens and ornamentals. And he manages the
First Light Organic Farm, a lush green spot in a hollow of North Truro. Here,
David and his partner 
Arthur Teubner work year-round growing heirloom and hardy fruits and
veggies to sell at market.
David's a dedicated and inspired agrarian, whose passion for farming keeps him
optimistic. But farming on the Outer Cape is the sort of Sisyphian challenge
that can wear anybody out.
The hard truth:
The soil of North Truro is not strong enough to support agriculture. Without
fertilization, it deteriorates shockingly fast.
David points out a patch of sand with a thin strip of fertile loam along the
edge. Last season it was a fertile veggie bed -- but it was left un-fertilized
as an experiment.
"This is what happens," David says. "You have to keep feeding it
organic material, or it turns back into sand."




This plot was a test run, left untended for a single
season. Last year's rich loam is now useless sand.

It's always been this way in North Truro. The Outer Cape is really just a spit of
sand -- but still, farmers lived here for generations. How?
Salt marsh hay.
There used to be a local tradition in this area: at each spring tide , the local community would head out to the bogs and marshes
to harvest the grasses. This was called "salt marsh haying".
Salt marsh hay has no weed seeds, and it doesn't compact as heavily as other
types of hay. This makes it an excellent and bountiful source of compost, and it
was used for generations as a soil enricher. But haying had to happen regularly,
says David:
"There's so much oxygen in this soil, any added compost gets burned up in six
weeks. All the nutrients get depleted."
That means soil left for two months without fresh compost will become -- you
guessed it -- sand.
The only way to keep things going here is to keep a steady flow of compost coming
in. That means truckloads of hay, and that means a lot of work. Last year, David
and Arthur brought in a semi truck loaded with leaf mulch. It worked -- but it
cost money, and it disappeared fast into the hungry ground. Not a long-term
plan.
In bygone times, the whole town of North Truro would pitch in on haying days;
now, David's on his own. Without that community support, it's nearly impossible
for him to harvest hay often enough to keep the farm green.
Meanwhile, in Tourist Town USA...
The Provincetown farmers market has lovely produce, but little of it was grown on
the Cape.
Provincetown's official population of 3,500
supports a tourism industry that serves millions of visitors each year. City
folk marvel at the quaint charms of the Cape, its idyllic beauty and simple
pleasures. And then they go out to eat.
Even if tourists were interested in sustainable food (they totally don't care ), they'd be hard pressed to find a locally-sourced
meal. Raina Stefani serves David's produce at her restaurant Terra Luna , but it only makes up a
portion of her fares: the rest has to be shipped from the mainland. You can't
squeeze blood from a stone, and you can't get big vegetable crops from sand
dunes. End of story.
Well, not exactly.
David isn't giving up -- in fact, he's got plans and ideas to refashion North
Truro's farming community. Hence the Ag Fair, and the ongoing experimentation
with varieties and soils at First Light. David isn't alone: he's got the support
(and companionship) of a growing group of gamechangers. If the young farmers and
foodies of Truro can organize, they might just be able to get local agriculture
back on its feet.
Their main opponent? The tourism and real estate industries, which insist upon
turning every arable inch of the Cape into somebody's backyard. The same
population that would consume the food produced here is actively inhibiting its
production.
No surprise there. After all, what's the point of farming on the beach?



2 Responses to "Farming on Sand"

 Melody M Thibodeau 25. Sep, 2010 at 7:52 am
If, someone could start bedding the outer cape's horses, with this Hay/Straw.
You know they could. It would be even better for the system. This would
also, make it more profitable. The horses. would be heathier. They wouldn't
have to be standing on the acidic sand all of the time. The straw/hay could
also be a form of supplemental food, for livestock/horses, which has been
used in before times. The straw, should be separated from the manure and
dried in the air, then buised, by hooves. Then it is more ready, to be mixed
with the soil, in the spring.







How soon is now? "Blog Archive"

Zombies and Vampires and Ninjas and Pirates
25 Jul 2010
by Rick
It's tough to kill the vampire...genre
I was noodling on Vampires the other day, but also lumped Zombies, Pirates and Ninjas
in the mix. These archetypes seem different to me than other 'trends'. Surely the
Vampire was dead after the spoof, "Love at First Bite " in 1979. But then the Anne Rice -led revival brought it
back (technically the 1st book, Interview with the
Vampire , was published in 1976, but didn't gain widespread popularity until
later). Then it jumped the shark with the Tom Cruise-Brad Pitt movie (based on the Anne Rice novel) in 1994. But
bubbling below the surface was Blade and other genre flicks, then Twilight hit and now vampires are hot. 
 Surely Ninjas were done with horrible movies like American Ninja (1985) or with
comedies starring Chris Farley ( Beverly Hills Ninja , 1997), and yet Ninja has become a replacement word for
'expert' to the point where it's almost accepted parlance: A twellow search for
'ninja' turned up more than 7,000 Twitter accounts using the term in their
profiles.  Ninja Warrior is one of the
most popular shows on G4. 
We can put Pirates away now after the 3rd Pirates of the Caribbean flick, right? No, actually, if we've learned
anything it's that genre memes just go back underground ( Pirates for adults [NSFW]You get
the point0. These characters are like Zombies (pun intended), they just keep coming
back to life.
So it's not just a matter of knowing when to jump off the Vampire merry-go-round,
it's knowing when (and where) to jump back on. If you jumped off Vampires would you
have known to jump back on in time to publish Twilight? Fourteen literary agents
rejected it before Stephenie Meyer got a deal. If you were off Zombies would you
have gotten back on it time to publish NY Times bestseller Pride & Prejudice and Zombies ? I don't think you can "get off" any
of these, you have to triangulate your decision across several nodes of popular
culture, a triangulation that has to revolve around the audience (young adult --
Twilght. mature -- True Blood) and sub-genre (comedy, horror, sci-fi...) and then the
actual quality of the content. So what sort of matrix board do you have to create to
know that a NC-17 comedy horror Zombie video game will work, but a PG-13 young adult
time-travelling Vampire TV show won't? You can't. All you can do is hope you bat
.300 and that when you fail, you fail
fast .
Ahh, the classics.
If you broaden your scope a bit, I think it would be difficult to find a time over
the last 40 years or so when any of these four archetypes didn't have a level of
bubbling popularity via books, comic books, tv, movies, video games, music. If all
you're looking at is 1 or 2 content categories maybe it looks like they're dead, but
they may be flourishing elsewhere, and like a virus they're just waiting for a new
host to carry them to the mainstream. Publishers, producers, editors, TV
execs, they all have to calibrate their decisions based on so many factors, and yet
even with access to sophisticated data it often comes down to human factors. A gut
instinct that something is going to work. Somebody at AMC is greenlighting The Walking Dead based partly on historical evidence that says people like
Zombies, but also partly on the notion that this particular iteration will have a new
twist that will bring new people into the (zombie and
AMC) tent . Personally, I'm waiting for someone to make Pirate Zombies v. Ninja
Vampires. Hey, if they can make Aliens and Cowboys , anything is possible.
This post was inspired by a recent post by Grant
McCracken . Make sure you read that one too.



3 Comments

Matthew Duhan says: July 26, 2010 at 5:13 pm
I don't know about Pirate Zombies v. Ninja Vampires, but there is a game where you
can play to become Zombies, Ninjas, Pirates, and Mad Scientists. Zombie Ninja
Pirates, by Gozer Games, is a quick 20-30 minute card game for 2-6 players. You
can find more information on our website.

We do have an expansion planned, which will add Vampires (among other Types) to
the mix. There will be more info about that coming soon.




Jewell Bardwell says: July 30, 2010 at 4:06 am
Incredibly effectively performed without a doubt.




Estefana Sjerven says: September 16, 2010 at 8:03 pm

I like twilight! I could sit and watch all day long if I didn't have school..or
life to stay me from doing it! lol Wonderful Simply Superb!







   Bud1            %                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 @                                              @                                                @                                                @                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E   %                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DSDB                             `                                                     @                                                @                                                @                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              


Message-ID: <12434767.1075852813161.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 25 Sep 2001 10:35:20 -0700 (PDT)
From: theresa.connor-smith@enron.com
To: kenneth.lay@enron.com
Subject: Confidential Question
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit


Dear Ken, 

I'm not sure quite were to turn but was hoping you could assist me.  I would like to keep this confidential especially regarding the New York Office.  As my request has nothing to do with the people in this office or the group  they are wonderful

I've been with Enron since '97 and I relocated up to Connecticut to work with the New Power Company when I thought that the Enron employees would stay Enron employees.  Afterwards of course we all were changed to NewPower employees.  After a couple of months I made the move back to Enron and went to  the New York office and work with the Enron Metals group here at 53rd street. (It was never my intention to leave Enron)

Since the bombing I feel very displaced and my husband and I would really like to come back to Houston and was wondering if you could help me.  I was on the trading floor working with Dave Delainey's group when he was in ENA and also was the Exec Secretary/Coordinator with the MWB group in George Warsoff's group.  

I would appreciate it very much if you were able to assist/guide me.

Sincerely,

Teri

Teri Connor-Smith
Admin Coordinator
Enron Metals & Commodities Corp
tsmith3@enron.com
(212)715-5601





Message-ID: <28168211.1075860837271.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 30 Nov 2001 07:29:18 -0800 (PST)
From: exenron@hotmail.com
To: kenneth.lay@enron.com, mark.pickering@enron.com, beth.perlman@enron.com
Subject: Thank you all very much for your support - NOT!
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit


I genuinely believed in Enron and the Values of the company

You demonstrated that that trust was misplaced and worth nothing

I particularly like your adherance to the core values - you "respected" us,
you "communicated" brilliantly with us, your fucking us over was
"excellent", your "integrity" was without question

You load of bastards - you screwed us all and got fat on the profits of our
sweat

I hope that the board and upper management rot in jail and never see the
light of day again - apart from when you are exercising in the open prison
yard in your shackles

Just Another Fucked Over Ex-Employee

_________________________________________________________________
Get your FREE download of MSN Explorer at http://explorer.msn.com/intl.asp





Message-ID: <31386690.1075860837352.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 30 Nov 2001 07:48:06 -0800 (PST)
From: steven.alexander@us.artemisintl.com
To: ken_lay@enron.net, kenneth_lay@enron.net
Subject: A Supportive Note
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit


Dear Mr. Lay:

I'm writing this note to you as a show of support to you during your dire
times.  The reason that I share this with you is my respect for you as a
CEO, a business leader and a person.  My wife is one of your employees who
routinely shares stories about you that are nothing less than inspiring.  I
know that during difficult times, sometimes words emerge that can help
people through difficult times.  I believe that you are sincere man and
know that you must be broken hearted, but I hope that this article can help
you lead a dispirted workforce to see things more clearly.  My wife, Shelly
Pierce, has worked for Enron for the past two years and like many of your
employees, has lost a great deal of her life savings.  Of course, I accept
most of the blame for this for reasons related to this article.  I lost my
investment discipline and held out the false hope that Enron could not
falter.  After reading the article to her while I was out of town, I
believe that her spirit was a bit rejuvenated and she was ready to face the
challenges that lay before you.

Mr. Lay, I appreciate the opportunity that you have given my wife and our
family and hope that this story inspires you to regain your successes.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
From the USA Today, Tuesday, November 27, 2001, page 15A.

"In recession, face brutal facts, thrive"


By Jim Collins

A man in his early 20s recently asked me, "So what's a recession like?"
Its an entirely alien concept to him; he'd grown up during the greatest
economic boom in modern memory.  His question drove home the fact that we
haven't faced a severe, protracted economic setback for nearly 2 decades,
leaving us terribly unpracticed at dealing with tough times.

With this recession - long in coming, perhaps long to stay - now
officially upon us, it is imperative that corporate leaders relearn a key
lesson about how great companies (and great people) deal with difficult
times differently from how they deal with merely good ones.  That lesson is
the "Stockdale Paradox," a peculiar psychology shown by those who emerge
from tough times not just intact, but stronger.

Adm. Jim Stockdale was the highest-ranking U.S. military officer in the
Hanoi prison camp during the Vietnam War.  Tortured many times during his
8-year imprisonment, Stockdale lived without any prisoner's rights, no set
release date and no certainty as to whether he would ever again see his
family.

He shouldered the burden of command while fighting an internal war
against his captors and their attempts to use the prisoners for propaganda.
At one point, he beat himself with a stool and cut himself with a razor,
deliberately disfiguring himself so that he could not be put on video as an
example of a "well-treated prisoner."  He exchanged secret intelligence
information with his wife through their letters knowing that discovery
would mean more torture and perhaps death.  After his release, Stockdale
became the first three-star officer in the history of the Navy to wear both
aviator wings and the Congressional Medal of Honor.

You can understand, then, my anticipation at the prospect of spending
part of an afternoon with Stockdale, who happened to be at the Hoover
Institute across the street from my office when I taught at Stanford.  In
preparation, I read In Love and War, the book he and his wife wrote to
chronicle their experiences those 8 years.

As I read the book, I found myself getting depressed.  It just seemed
so bleak - the uncertainty of his fate, the brutality of his captors.  And
then it dawned on me:  Here I am sitting in my warm comfortable office,
looking out over the Stanford campus on a beautiful Saturday afternoon.
I'm getting depressed reading this, and I know that he gets out, reunites
with his family and becomes a national hero.  If it feels depressing for
me, how on earth did he deal with it when he was actually there and did not
know the end of the story?

"I never lost faith in the end of the story," Stockdale said when I
asked him.  "I never doubted not only that I would get out, but also that I
would prevail in the end and turn the experience into the defining event of
my life that, in retrospect, I would not trade."

I didn't say anything for many minutes, and we continued the slow walk
toward the faculty club, Stockdale limping and arc-swinging his leg, still
stiff from repeated torture.  Finally, I asked, "Who didn't make it out?"

"Oh, that's easy," he said.  "The optimists."

"The optimists?  I don't understand," I said, completely confused.

"The optimists.  Oh, they were the ones who said, 'We're going to be
out by Christmas.'  And Christmas would come, and Christmas would go.  Then
they'd say, 'We're going to be out by Easter.'  And Easter would come, and
Easter would go.  And then Thanksgiving, and then it would be Christmas
again.  And they died of a broken heart."

After another long pause, he turned to me and said, "This is a very
important lesson.  You must never confuse faith that you will prevail in
the end - which you can never afford to lose - with the need for discipline
to confront the most brutal facts of your current reality, whatever they
might be."

My conversation with Stockdale had a profound influence on me, but I
never really considered it a business lesson until my research team began
to wrestle with the question of why some companies rise from difficulty to
become great while others emerge from those exact same difficulties
weakened and dispirited.  We found that companies that became great
embraced a corporate version of the Stockdale Paradox.

Fannie Mae, for example found itself in the 1982 recession losing $1M
every business day, with $56B in loans under water.  Many analysts thought
Fannie Mae, which was getting 9% on its mortgage portfolio but paying 15%
on the debt it issued, was doomed.

But CEO David Maxwell and his team never wavered in their aim to not
merely survive, but also to prevail as a great company.  Yes, they
confronted the brutal fact that the interest-rate problem was not going to
magically disappear (certainly not by Christmas).  But they used this grim
fact as a catalyst for creating an entirely new business model based on
asking three central questions of greatness:


        What can we potentially do better than any other company in the
        world?
        

        What can best drive our economic engine?
        

        What best ignites the passions of our people?
        

    Instead of reacting to the recession with mindless restructuring,
Fannie Mae rebuilt itself based on its answers to these questions.
Eventually, it generated investor returns nearly eight times those of the
general stock market.

When asked how he dealt with the nay Sayers and the analysts who wrote
Fannie Mae off, Maxwell said that it was never an issue inside the company.
"Of course, we had to stop doing a lot of stupid things, but we never
entertained the possibility that we would fail.   We were going to use the
calamity as an opportunity to remake Fannie Maw into a great company."

The sad truth is that most executive teams won't respond that way to
these dark days of uncertainty.  Instead of using this recession as an
opportunity to fundamentally rethink their business and rebuild a culture
of discipline, the will simply restructure, lay off a bunch of people and
liquidate their cultural equity.  Mediocre leaders will hold out false
hopes for a quick fix, only to watch those hopes be swept away by events.
Their companies will begin to die of a broken heart.

It need not be this way.  Those who lead with the Stockdale Paradox -
those who retain the unwavering faith that they will find a way to prevail
in the end, but who also retain the discipline to confront the most brutal
facts of reality - will find this an ideal time to rebuild and reinforce
greatness.

    Used correctly, this recession can be a defining time in your firm's
history that , in retrospect, you would not trade.  Used wrongly, this
recession will weaken your foundations and make it that much harder to
become great.  The choice is yours.

    Jim Collins, the author of Good to Great, operates a
management-research laboratory in Boulder, Colo.

Regards,

Steve

Steve Alexander
Vice President, North American Artemis Consulting
Artemis International Solutions Corporation
Office:  +1 281.338.9616
Mobile:  +1 281.830.7430
www.artemisintl.com






Date: Wed, 8 Sep 1999 08:50:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: steven.kean@enron.com
To: kelly.kimberly@enron.com
Subject: Re: India And The WTO Services Negotiation
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Steven J Kean
X-To: Kelly Kimberly
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Folder: \Steven_Kean_Dec2000_1\Notes Folders\All documents
X-Origin: KEAN-S
X-FileName: skean.nsf


fyi
---------------------- Forwarded by Steven J Kean/HOU/EES on 09/08/99 03:49 
PM ---------------------------


Joe Hillings@ENRON
09/08/99 02:52 PM
To: Joe Hillings/Corp/Enron@Enron
cc: Sanjay Bhatnagar/ENRON_DEVELOPMENT@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT, Terence H 
Thorn/ENRON_DEVELOPMENT@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT, Ashok 
Mehta/ENRON_DEVELOPMENT@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT, John 
Ambler/ENRON_DEVELOPMENT@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT, Steven J Kean/HOU/EES@EES, 
Jeffrey Sherrick/Corp/Enron@Enron 
Subject: Re: India And The WTO Services Negotiation  

Sanjay: Some information of possible interest to you. I attended a meeting 
this afternoon of the Coalition of Service Industries, one of the lead groups 
promoting a wide range of services including energy services in the upcoming 
WTO GATTS 2000 negotiations. CSI President Bob Vastine was in Delhi last week 
and met with CII to discuss the upcoming WTO. CII apparently has a committee 
looking into the WTO. Bob says that he told them that energy services was 
among the CSI recommendations and he recalls that CII said that they too have 
an interest.

Since returning from the meeting I spoke with Kiran Pastricha and told her 
the above. She actually arranged the meeting in Delhi. She asked that I send 
her the packet of materials we distributed last week in Brussels and London. 
One of her associates is leaving for India tomorrow and will take one of 
these items to Delhi. 

Joe


Joe Hillings
09/08/99 11:57 AM
To: Sanjay Bhatnagar/ENRON_DEVELOPMENT@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT
cc: Terence H Thorn/ENRON_DEVELOPMENT@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT, Ashok 
Mehta/ENRON_DEVELOPMENT@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT, John 
Ambler/ENRON_DEVELOPMENT@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT, Steven J Kean/HOU/EES@EES, 
Jeffrey Sherrick/Corp/Enron@Enron (bcc: Joe Hillings/Corp/Enron)
Subject: India And The WTO Services Negotiation

Sanjay: First some information and then a request for your advice and 
involvment.

A group of US companies and associations formed the US WTO Energy Services 
Coalition in late May and has asked the US Government to include "energy 
services" on their proposed agenda when the first meeting of the WTO GATTS 
2000 ministerial convenes late this year in Seattle. Ken Lay will be among 
the CEO speakers. These negotiations are expected to last three years and 
cover a range of subjects including agriculture, textiles, e-commerce, 
investment, etc.

This morning I visited with Sudaker Rao at the Indian Embassy to tell him 
about our coalition and to seek his advice on possible interest of the GOI. 
After all, India is a leader in data processing matters and has other 
companies including ONGC that must be interested in exporting energy 
services. In fact probably Enron and other US companies may be engaging them 
in India and possibly abroad.

Sudaker told me that the GOI has gone through various phases of opposing the 
services round to saying only agriculture to now who knows what. He agrees 
with the strategy of our US WTO Energy Services Coalition to work with 
companies and associations in asking them to contact their government to ask 
that energy services be on their list of agenda items. It would seem to me 
that India has such an interest. Sudaker and I agree that you are a key 
person to advise us and possibly to suggest to CII or others that they make 
such a pitch to the GOI Minister of Commerce.

I will ask Lora to send you the packet of materials Chris Long and I 
distributed in Brussels and London last week. I gave these materials to 
Sudaker today.

Everyone tells us that we need some developing countries with an interest in 
this issue. They may not know what we are doing and that they are likely to 
have an opportunity if energy services are ultimately negotiated.

Please review and advise us how we should proceed. We do need to get 
something done in October.
Joe

PS Terry Thorn is moderating a panel on energy services at the upcoming World 
Services Congress in Atlanta. The Congress will cover many services issues. I 
have noted in their materials that Mr. Alliwalia is among the speakers but 
not on energy services. They expect people from all over the world to 
participate.








Date: Tue, 1 Aug 2000 02:27:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: steven.kean@enron.com
To: michael.terraso@enron.com, karen.denne@enron.com
Subject: Corporate Watch article
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Steven J Kean
X-To: Michael Terraso, Karen Denne
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Folder: \Steven_Kean_Dec2000_1\Notes Folders\All documents
X-Origin: KEAN-S
X-FileName: skean.nsf


---------------------- Forwarded by Steven J Kean/HOU/EES on 08/01/2000 09:24 
AM ---------------------------

Sherri Sera@ENRON
08/01/2000 09:15 AM


To: Steven J Kean/HOU/EES@EES, Mark Palmer/Corp/Enron@ENRON
cc:  
Subject: Corporate Watch article

Steve, Mark -

Here's the link to the entire message in the event you're interested...you'll 
go through several links to get all the information that was posted.  In 
addition to the Corporate Watch article, there is an Environmental Defense 
Scorecard on Enron's Methanol Plant in Deer Park, TX, and the old Amnesty 
International article on human rights issues in India...

http://boards.fool.com/Message.asp?id=1100058000814000&sort=postdate







Date: Mon, 21 Aug 2000 01:00:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: steven.kean@enron.com
To: james.steffew@enron.com
Subject: 
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Steven J Kean
X-To: james steffew
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Folder: \Steven_Kean_Dec2000_1\Notes Folders\All documents
X-Origin: KEAN-S
X-FileName: skean.nsf


---------------------- Forwarded by Steven J Kean/NA/Enron on 08/21/2000 
08:00 AM ---------------------------
From: Mark E Haedicke@ECT on 08/15/2000 01:37 PM
To: Steven J Kean/NA/Enron@Enron
cc:  

Subject: 

Per our conversation on coordination of our efforts on California and other 
jurisdictions, we have developed the following training program:

1.    Anti-trust -- we have completed anti-trust training in Houston for 
traders and have scheduled it in Portland and Calgary.

2.    Sales Practices -- this training has been completed in Portland and is 
being scheduled in Houston and Calgary.

3.    Anti-manipulation -- this training has been completed in Portland, but 
needs to be expanded to cover local law manipulation issues.  It also needs 
to be scheduled in Houston and Calgary. 

Also, the above training needs to be supplemented with training on local 
power pool rules.  There is a similar program being prepared in London.  A 
meeting is being scheduled so we can discuss these matters further.

Mark Haedicke







Date: Sun, 15 Apr 2001 13:00:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: steven.kean@enron.com
To: maureen.mcvicker@enron.com
Subject: <<Concur Expense Document>> - March 2001 AMEX
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Steven J Kean
X-To: Maureen McVicker
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Folder: \Steven_Kean_June2001_1\Notes Folders\All documents
X-Origin: KEAN-S
X-FileName: skean.nsf


---------------------- Forwarded by Steven J Kean/NA/Enron on 04/15/2001 
07:59 PM ---------------------------


eserver@enron.com on 04/09/2001 02:41:04 PM
    To: "Steven.J.Kean@enron.com" <Steven.J.Kean@enron.com>
cc:  

    Subject: <<Concur Expense Document>> - March 2001 AMEX

The following expense report is ready for approval:

Employee Name: Mark A. Palmer
Status last changed by:  Automated Administrator
Expense Report Name: March 2001 AMEX
Report Total: $6,539.82
Amount Due Employee: $6,539.82


To approve this expense report, click on the following link for Concur 
Expense.
http://xms.enron.com


---------------------- Forwarded by Steven J Kean/NA/Enron on 04/15/2001 
07:59 PM ---------------------------


eserver@enron.com on 04/10/2001 01:45:03 PM
    To: "Steven.J.Kean@enron.com" <Steven.J.Kean@enron.com>
cc:  

    Subject: <<Concur Expense Document>> - General Expenses

The following expense report is ready for approval:

Employee Name: John Hardy Jr Jr.
Status last changed by:  Automated Administrator
Expense Report Name: General Expenses
Report Total: $2,240.10
Amount Due Employee: $2,240.10


To approve this expense report, click on the following link for Concur 
Expense.
http://xms.enron.com


---------------------- Forwarded by Steven J Kean/NA/Enron on 04/15/2001 
07:59 PM ---------------------------


eserver@enron.com on 04/13/2001 02:35:43 PM
    To: "Steven.J.Kean@enron.com" <Steven.J.Kean@enron.com>
cc:  

    Subject: <<Concur Expense Document>> - JS3/31/01

The following expense report is ready for approval:

Employee Name: James Steffes  
Status last changed by:  Automated Administrator
Expense Report Name: JS3/31/01
Report Total: $2,796.30
Amount Due Employee: $2,796.30


To approve this expense report, click on the following link for Concur 
Expense.
http://xms.enron.com









Date: Fri, 2 Mar 2001 04:27:00 -0800 (PST)
From: steven.kean@enron.com
Subject: California Power Markets
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Steven J Kean
X-To: 
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Folder: \Steven_Kean_June2001_1\Notes Folders\All documents
X-Origin: KEAN-S
X-FileName: skean.nsf


----- Forwarded by Steven J Kean/NA/Enron on 03/02/2001 12:27 PM -----

	Suzanne_Nimocks@mckinsey.com
	Sent by: Carol_Benter@mckinsey.com
	03/02/2001 12:04 PM

		 To: skean@enron.com
		 cc: 
		 Subject: California Power Markets


Sorry that we haven't talked in some time.  I thought that you would want
to take a look at some analysis we have recently completed with regard to
the California Power Crisis.  You may find some of the analysis to be
helpful.  Let me know if you have any questions.

(See attached file: 10209 zxd414.ppt)

+-------------------------------------------------------------+
| This message may contain confidential and/or privileged     |
| information.  If you are not the addressee or authorized to |
| receive this for the addressee, you must not use, copy,     |
| disclose or take any action based on this message or any    |
| information herein.  If you have received this message in   |
| error, please advise the sender immediately by reply e-mail |
| and delete this message.  Thank you for your cooperation.   |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+
 - 10209 zxd414.ppt






Date: Fri, 2 Mar 2001 03:46:00 -0800 (PST)
From: steven.kean@enron.com
To: maureen.mcvicker@enron.com
Subject: ABX1 70 Further Nail in Generator's Coffin -- Absurdity in CA
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Steven J Kean
X-To: Maureen McVicker
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Folder: \Steven_Kean_June2001_1\Notes Folders\All documents
X-Origin: KEAN-S
X-FileName: skean.nsf


test
----- Forwarded by Steven J Kean/NA/Enron on 03/02/2001 11:51 AM -----

	Susan J Mara
	03/02/2001 10:44 AM

		 To: Mark Palmer/Corp/Enron@ENRON, Karen Denne/Corp/Enron@ENRON, Jeff 
Dasovich/NA/Enron@Enron, Sandra McCubbin/NA/Enron@Enron, Christopher F 
Calger/PDX/ECT@ECT, David Parquet/SF/ECT@ECT, Laird Dyer/SF/ECT@ECT, Tim 
Belden/HOU/ECT@ECT, Richard Shapiro/NA/Enron@Enron, Steven J 
Kean/NA/Enron@Enron, James D Steffes/NA/Enron@Enron
		 cc: 
		 Subject: ABX1 70 Further Nail in Generator's Coffin -- Absurdity in CA

I just heard about this bill by La Seur

ABX1 70 attempts to criminalize acts of unregulated generators if they 
perform maintenance at times other than the California Public Utilities 
Commission requires. Further, the commission is required to allow scheduled 
maintenance of only one generator at a time. 
So, with 500 generators in the state, just how  many years would it take to 
complete one round of maintenance?  Also, please note it does not apply to 
munis.


Sue Mara
Enron Corp.
Tel: (415) 782-7802
Fax:(415) 782-7854






Date: Wed, 28 Feb 2001 06:49:00 -0800 (PST)
From: steven.kean@enron.com
To: bernadette.hawkins@enron.com
Subject: Ken Lay's email to Sen. Brulte
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=ANSI_X3.4-1968
Content-Transfer-Encoding: quoted-printable
X-From: Steven J Kean
X-To: Bernadette Hawkins
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Folder: \Steven_Kean_June2001_1\Notes Folders\All documents
X-Origin: KEAN-S
X-FileName: skean.nsf


----- Forwarded by Steven J Kean/NA/Enron on 02/28/2001 02:48 PM -----

Jeff Dasovich
Sent by: Jeff Dasovich
02/16/2001 08:49 AM

To: Sandra McCubbin/NA/Enron@Enron, Susan J Mara/NA/Enron@ENRON,
MDay@GMSSR.com, Hedy Govenar <@mail.acom2.com> @ ENRON, Scott Govenar
<sgovenar@govadv.com>, Paul Kaufman/PDX/ECT@ECT, James D
Steffes/NA/Enron@Enron, Harry Kingerski/NA/Enron@Enron, Richard
Shapiro/NA/Enron@Enron, skean@enron.com, mpalmer@enron.com, Karen
Denne/Corp/Enron@ENRON, BTC <BCragg@GMSSR.com>
cc:
Subject: Ken Lay's email to Sen. Brulte






Greetings All:

First, I am apologizing in advance for any typos in this email.  Schedule i
s
very tight, but I wanted to make sure that everyone had it first thing this
morning, with some back-up info that I've included below.

Attached is the email that was sent to Ken Lay's office yesterday evening f
or
delivery to Sen. Brulte.  It's of course confidential.  Few points:

I don't have Bev's email, so if you could please forward to her, that would
be appreciated.
As we discussed (Jim, Mike, Bev, Scott, Hedy) on our lengthy call on
Wednesday, I'm assuming that the plan is still to "wallpaper" Sacramento wi
th
our proposed legislation.
This email does not contain the legislation.  Mike sent the "final" version
s
of our legislation out yesterday, except for the siting piece, which I
believe Brian Cragg of Mike's office is finalizing today.
You'll note that we promise Senator Brulte in the email that we'll deliver 
to
his office today the proposed legislation.  Again, based on our call on
Wednesday, I'm assuming that we would simultaneously release the proposed
legislation to the rest of the world at the same time.
When we spoke on Wednesday, we decided that the Sacramento team would
determine to whom we would circulate the proposed legislation at the same
time that we deliver the Senator Brulte. I'm assuming that you folks will
handle that end of things.  Please let us know at your convenience to whom
you've decided to circulate.
This email does, however, include a "summary" of our proposed legislation. 
But I'm not certain that the summary included in this email is the
appropriate language to distribute "to the world," or if we'll need instead
to tailor some new language.  I think we all agreed that we need a "one
pager" to accompany the legislative package so that we can communicate the
package effectively.
We also discussed the need to quickly develop a coalition to support our
proposals.  We didn't finalize that plan.  Perhaps the Sacramento team coul
d
propose a plan to do that.  Perhaps we could start with our friends in the
Direct Access coalition?
We also talked about the need at this point to engage in PR and to get the 
PR
machinery activated, also with the goal of effectively communicating our
legislative package/message.  We're in a meeting with folks today where we
can discuss getting that side of things going and Karen Denne has contacted
Marathon and they're pondering some things that we can do in the near term.
You'll note that there's a considerable amount of information about the DWR
credit issue.  As I recollect, we discussed the issue in depth on the call.
 
You note that attached to the email is a "legislative fix" to AB1X that cou
ld
solve the credit issue and an attached set of "taking points" related to a
second alternative to solving the credit issue:  a PUC order clarifying tha
t
DWR will get its money for power purchase costs.
Note also that Steve Kean reminded me that we've got to continue to push to
get the utilities out of the merchant function.  Accordingly, I've put a
brief paragraph on that issue in the note to Brulte in the last section
(legislative solution) under the topic "create a real competitive retail
market in California."  To the best of my knowledge, we don't have
legislative language on that piece yet, and it seems that we'll need to
discuss it in considerably more depth before doing so.


If you have any questions about any of the materials in the email, please
don't hesitate to contact me or Jim or Sandi to discuss.  I can be best
reached to day by pager at 888.916.7184. 

Thanks to all for helping pull this together.

Best,
Jeff

----- Forwarded by Jeff Dasovich/NA/Enron on 02/16/2001 08:27 AM -----

Jeff Dasovich
Sent by: Jeff Dasovich
02/15/2001 06:11 PM

 To: jdasovic@enron.com, skean@enron.com, Richard Shapiro/NA/Enron@En
ron,
James D Steffes/NA/Enron@Enron
 cc:
 Subject:

Steve:
Here's a substantially more cleaned-version, with attachments.  There's a
hard copy on your chair.

Best,
Jeff
----- Forwarded by Jeff Dasovich/NA/Enron on 02/15/2001 05:57 PM -----

Jeff Dasovich
Sent by: Jeff Dasovich
02/15/2001 05:56 PM

 To: jdasovic@enron.com
 cc:
 Subject:

Jim:
It was a pleasure speaking with you yesterday.  Based on our conversation,
this email includes the following:

An Enron contact to discuss developing small-scale generation on Tribal lan
ds.

Our views on the impediments to distributed generation and suggestions on h
ow
to remove those impediments.

A description of the credit issues that continue to impede DWR,s ability
 to
sign contracts with power suppliers, and options to resolve them. Two
possible options for addressing the credit issue are 1) a California PUC
order clarifying that DWR will recover its power purchase costs through
rates, and 2) an amendment to AB1X designed to accomplish the same goal.  I
have attached talking points regarding the California PUC order and propose
d
amendments to AB1X.  We believe that an amendment to AB1X is the preferable
option.

Our assessment of the supply/demand picture in California.

Our suggestions for a legislative package designed to solve both the near-
and long-term electricity crisis in California.  We will deliver to your
office tomorrow detailed legislative language.  In those materials we will
also identify existing bills that we believe can easily accommodate our
proposed language.

I hope that the information is useful.  Please do not hesitate to contact m
e
if you would like to discuss these materials further, or if there is anythi
ng
else that I can do to assist you.

Regards,
Ken



Contact Information to Discuss Interest Expressed by Native American Tribes
in Installing Small-scale Generation on Tribal Lands

David Parquet, Vice-President
Enron North America
101 California Street, Suite 1950
San Francisco, CA 94111
Phone: 415.782.7820
Fax: 415.782.7851


2. Key Barriers to Distributed Generation

Excessive and Unnecessary Utility Stand-by Charges

Solution: The executive orders issued by the Governor on February 14th took
 a
step in the right direction.  Utility stand-by charges have always been
designed by the utilities to protect their monopoly position, extract
monopoly prices from customers, or both.  But there is no reason to limit t
he
elimination of these charges to generation facilities that are less than
1MW.  These limits will only lengthen unnecessarily the time it takes for
California to close the significant gap between supply and demand and reduc
e
the risk of black outs this summer.  We would propose lifting the cap by
offering amendments to SB27X, which is designed to facilitate development o
f
distributed generation.

Excessive delays and costs related to interconnecting facilities with
investor-owned and municipal utilities

Solution:   The Governor,s executive order regarding interconnection is 
a
step in the right direction*D-D-26-01 requires utilities to complete
interconnection studies within 7 days.  California should ensure that this
requirement applies to all generation facilities, including distributed
generation.  In addition, the financial conflicts the utilities face when
interconnecting generation facilities are simply too powerful to overcome
through executive orders or other regulations.  To the greatest extent
possible, California should shift control over interconnection away from th
e
utility and place that control with the California ISO.  This could be
accomplished through amendments to SB 27X.

Permitting and Air Quality Issues
Developers of distributed (i.e., "on-site") generation that is 50 MWs
 or
greater must receive certification from the California Energy Commission an
d
therefore face all of the impediments to development that large-scale
generation faces. 

Solution: California should ensure that the executive orders (D-22-01 thru
D-26-01) issued by the Governor to expedite plant siting and maximize plant
output apply equally to smaller scale, "distributed generation" facil
ities.
In addition, distributed generation that is less than 50 MWs continues to
face local opposition.  The State should ensure that local, parochial
interests cannot block otherwise beneficial distributed generation projects
. 
These objectives could be accomplished through amendments to SB27X.

3. Credit Concerns Regarding Authority Granted to DWR in AB1X to Purchase
Electricity on Behalf of the Utilities

Enron responded to the RFP issued by DWR to enter into power contracts with
suppliers.
Enron is in active discussions with DWR to establish contract terms with th
e
goal of entering into a power purchase agreement as soon as possible.
However, ambiguities contained in AB1X have created significant credit risk
concerns that need to be resolved in order to finalize contract terms.
We understand that the lion,s share of counterparties share Enron,s c
redit
risk concerns.
Enron has proposed several options for resolving the credit risk issues and
is working with DWR to arrive at a solution that is mutually agreeable to
both sides and that might serve as a template for power purchase agreements
going forward.

Summary of the Source of the Credit Risk Issue

Ambiguous Ratemaking Authority
The language in AB1X is ambiguous as to whether DWR has any authority to
charge California ratepayers for the costs of purchasing power.  From our
analysis of the bill, the language in AB1X appears to leave intact the
California PUC,s exclusive jurisdiction over ratemaking in California.  
As
such, suppliers have no assurance that the PUC will agree to include in rat
es
adequate charges to cover DWR,s costs of power purchases.

Ambiguous Regulatory Authority Regarding Contract "Prudence"
The language in AB1X leaves open the possibility that the California Public
Utilities Commission could determine that power purchases made by DWR are
"imprudent."  On the basis of such a finding, the CPUC could then ref
use to
allow DWR to collect from ratepayers the costs associated with its power
purchases.  Consequently, suppliers have no assurance that the PUC will agr
ee
to include in rates the charges to cover the costs of power contracts that
DWR has entered into with suppliers.

Ambiguous Language Regarding the Ratemaking Mechanism that Will Be Used to
Recover DWR,s Costs of Power Purchases
In addition to the ambiguity regarding ratemaking and regulatory authority
noted above, the language in the bill is equally ambiguous with respect to
the specific ratemaking "mechanics" that AB1X directs the PUC to empl
oy to
permit DWR to recover its power purchase costs. Based on our analysis, it i
s
extremely difficult to determine how the PUC would design the rates to ensu
re
DWR recovers its power purchase costs.  Moreover, as currently drafted, it 
is
difficult to determine whether AB1X would even permit the PUC to include in
rates all of the charges necessary to fully recover DWR,s power purchase
costs.  Again, this ambiguity raises significant credit risk concerns since
suppliers have little assurance that DWR will have the ability to recover
from ratepayers the costs of purchasing power.

Options to Resolve Concerns Regarding Credit Risk

We have been working diligently with DWR officials to resolve the credit ri
sk
issues.  We have identified three options:

Amend AB1X
The amendments, which are attached to this email, would clarify that a) the
PUC would accept as "prudent and reasonable" all purchase costs incur
red by
DWR, and b) the PUC is obligated to include in rates the charges necessary 
to
ensure that DWR fully recovers its costs of power purchases.  This is the
preferred option, though we understand that the there may be some political
challenges standing in the way of amending AB1X.  (See attached file
entitled, "AmendAB1X.doc".)

Clarify the Ambiguities in AB1X through an Order Issued by the PUC, and
through Contract Language
This is the option that we are currently working with DWR officials to
implement.  However, it is more complicated and could take significantly mo
re
time to implement than the "legislative" fix.  We have attached electronic
copies of the talking points related to the order that the California PUC
would need to issue under this option.  (See attached file entitled,
"cpuctalkingpoints.doc.")

Make Use of Other Instruments Designed to Address Credit Risk
As indicated in our letter responding to DWR's RFP, we are willing to ac
cept
other forms of credit from DWR.  Those options include a letter of credit,
cash prepayment, or an acceptable form of collateral.  DWR officials have
indicated to us that DWR prefers to pursue the second options. That is, DWR
prefers to clarify the ambiguities in AB1X through a PUC order and through
contract amendments.

4. California's Supply-demand Picture Heading into Summer 2001

Both the California Energy Commission and Cambridge Energy Research
Associates (CERA), a private sector energy think tank, have issued reports
showing that California faces a severe supply-demand imbalance.  They diffe
r
only on how much and how soon additional supply will be made available.  Al
l
credible sources agree that supply will be very tight throughout the Summer
of 2001 and that unless a solution is found immediately, blackouts are
likely. 

CEC and CERA both forecast that California will be short of supply this
summer by approximately 5,000 MW.   These numbers are in line with our
estimates.  California's supply base currently has a 6% capacity margin,
 well
below the average 15-20%, which is recommended for reliable system operatio
n
in the West.  Since the West relies more heavily upon hydroelectric power
than other regions, reserves are particularly important, owing to the
unpredictability of the weather and the dry year the West has experienced t
o
date. In the event of a low rain and snow period, the system must possess t
he
flexibility to respond to the reduced availability of power supply. 
California's very low reserve margin makes it especially susceptible to 
this
requirement. 

Other reasons for reduced supply for the Summer of 2001 include the early
draw-down of reservoirs in the continual effort to manage California's seve
re
supply-demand gap; emissions restrictions on existing plants; and a reduced
number of customers who can be curtailed under their contracts with the
utilities.  Cambridge Energy Research Associates asserts that at the curren
t
pace of siting, permitting and construction, adequate supplies will not be
added to correct the market imbalance until 2003 at the earliest.

CERA predicts that California is likely to face approximately 20 hours of
rolling black outs this summer.  The CEC paints a considerably more
optimistic scenario, betting that California will bring an additional 5,000
MWs on line to meet peaking summer demand.  It is our view that California
should view the CEC's "rosy scenario" with considerable skepticism.

5. Suggested Package of Legislative Proposals Designed to Solve California
's
Electricity Crisis

This email offers an overview of our proposed legislative solution.  We wil
l
deliver to your office tomorrow specific legislative language and existing
bills that we believe can accommodate our proposals.

As we have suggested throughout the crisis, any solution to California's
crisis must focus on four issues:

Increase supply
Decrease demand
Establish a truly competitive retail electricity market
Return California's Investor-owned utilities to solvency

Increase supply--Legislative vehicle: SB28X (Sher)
To site and construct a power plant in Texas takes approximately 2 years. 
Enron and others have completed the entire process in other states in less
than a year.  In California, it takes about six years, or longer.

The Governor's executive orders and Senator Sher's siting reform legi
slation
are steps in the right direction.  Our suggested amendments can improve tho
se
efforts by further addressing the difficulties that project developers face
in securing air emission reduction credits to meet the air permit
requirements included in the CEC's certification requirements.  Enron's
proposal seeks to streamline the process for 1) obtaining credits and 2)
transfering credits between air districts.  In addition, it creates an
innovative emissions reduction bank to allow project sponsors to fund
emissions in advance of obtaining certification, and permits the affected a
ir
districts to use those funds to finance projects that will produce the
required reductions in pollution emissions.

Decrease demand*Legislative Vehicle:   AB31X (Wright)
Because of the delay in getting a solution in place in California, closing
the supply-demand gap through energy conservation and efficiency offers the
best chance of avoiding blackouts this summer.  This can be accomplished mo
st
effectively and quickly in two ways:

Buy-down demand
California is tapping into an enormous amount of money from the General Fun
d
to finance DWR's power purchases.  California could likely reduce demand
 more
economically by running an auction to determine the payments businesses wou
ld
be willing to receive to reduce their demand for a sustained period (e.g.,
through the summer months).  DWR could easily run an on-line auction to
determine the price it could pay for these demand reductions.  To
participate, businesses would be required to have the metering equipment
necessary to monitor and verify that they are actually achieving the
reductions.  Enron has developed an on-line auction software package, "D
eal
Bench," that it would be willing to contribute to the effort.

Use Price Signals to Incent Voluntary Curtailment
To be successful, customers need access to the following key elements:

An internet based hour-ahead price posting system to track the market price
for hour-ahead power in real time.
Real-time metering systems for baseline demand and voluntarily curtailment
verification.
Settlement process that allows for market clearing prices of energy to be
paid for load reduction ("Negawatts").

The potential benefits of an effective demand response program would includ
e:

"creation" of additional summer peaking capacity in California, parti
cularly
in the short term, without requiring construction of additional generation
resources.
reduction of  peak or super-peak load on the over-stressed California
electric system, thus potentially reducing the overall cost of electricity 
in
the state.
fostering of demand elasticity without subjecting customers to the full ris
k
of hourly market price volatility by passing market price signals to
customers and allowing them to voluntarily shed load and be compensated for
responding.

We estimate that we could generate a summer 2001 on-peak demand response in
excess of 400 MW during certain high cost hours, and a demand response for
summer 2002 on-peak hours that could exceed 1000 MW.  We further estimate
that the market response to this program from all ESPs could be 2 to 3 time
s
that amount.  We recommend that the State of California provide rebates
directly to customers to fund the installation of advanced metering and
control systems that would support load curtailment implementation.

Establish a truly competitive retail electricity market*Legislative vehi
cle:
SB27X
The only customers who were protected from price volatility in San Diego we
re
customers who chose Direct Access and signed fixed price deals with energy
service providers.  Ironically, AB1X takes that important option away from
customers and businesses.  It is critical that AB1X be amended to remove th
e
prohibition against Direct Access.

Enron's legislative proposal would give customers freedom to enter into a
direct access transaction, while simultaneously addressing the Department o
f
Water Resources' concerns about stranded power costs that might result from
customer migration. 

In addition, California will only achieve a competitive retail market when
the utility is removed completely from the procurement function.  Procureme
nt
is not a utility core competency, as evidenced by the dire financial
condition in which the utilities now find themselves.  California should
therefore begin immediately to phase the utility out of the procurement
function entirely, with the goal of having all customers served by a
non-utility provider within 36 months.  To execute the transition, California
should hold a series of competitive solicitations over the 36-month period 
in
which competing service providers would bid for the right to serve segments
of utility load.

Return California's Investor-owned utilities to solvency*Legislative 
vehicle:
AB18X
Utility bankruptcy will not increase supply and it will not decrease demand. 
In short, bankruptcy does nothing to solve California's supply-demand
imbalance.  In addition, bankruptcy increases the likelihood that consumers
and businesses will bear the significant financial risks of having California
State government assume the role of "electricity buyer" for an extended
period of time.  Finally, bankruptcy will undermine both investor confidence
in California's energy markets and the private sector's willingness to
participate in that market.

California can return the utilities to financial solvency by implementing a
series of staged rate increases.  California should design those rate
increases with the dual goal of returning the utilities to solvency without
"shocking" the economy or household budgets For example, California could
amortize the recovery of the utilities, past debt over a 5-10 year period. 
In addition, the magnitude of the rate increase can be reduced in two ways:
First, the utilities could absorb some portion of their existing debt in
recognition of the risk they accepted when they agreed to the structure of 
AB
1890.  Second, California can "net" the revenues the utilities have r
eceived
from selling electricity into the Power Exchange against the debts they hav
e
accrued due to the retail price cap.








Date: Fri, 6 Jul 2001 00:41:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: steven.kean@enron.com
To: george.wasaff@enron.com
Subject: Can you help me?
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Steven J Kean
X-To: George Wasaff
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Folder: \Steven_Kean_Nov2001_1\Notes Folders\All documents
X-Origin: KEAN-S
X-FileName: skean.nsf


---------------------- Forwarded by Steven J Kean/NA/Enron on 07/06/2001 
07:40 AM ---------------------------


steve.knight@businesslayers.com on 06/25/2001 12:57:25 PM
To: Steven J Kean/NA/Enron@Enron
cc:  

Subject: Can you help me?

I am looking for some help in identifying the right person(s) at: Enron
Corp., for an introduction of our software solution.  Steven, if you could
take a moment and point me to the appropriate contact I would greatly
appreciate it.

Summary of eProvisioning:

eProvisioning radically improves people's Time-To-Productivity by
transforming the disparate activities that allocate IT resources to people
into a secure and automatic process. Once provisioned, these resources
remain digitally connected to each person as they move through the business
cycle and are dynamically updated as necessary. At the appropriate time,
they are systematically, securely and automatically removed.  

Organizations that employ eProvisioning gain a competitive edge and access
complete security by ensuring that people are kept productive from day one,
and are prevented from becoming counterproductive beyond the day they leave.
In addition, by aligning their IT infrastructure with business priorities,
organizations can effectively manage change across the extended enterprise,
and better respond to emerging market requirements. 

eProvision Day One provides business and IT executives with the ability to
quickly identify bottlenecks and maintain accountability of the
eProvisioning process through comprehensive reporting and tracking
capabilities. As business relationships between organizations expand,
Business Layers technology provides the framework for integration and
interoperability between eProvisioning partners - suppliers and service
providers, devices and applications - which are the digital foundations of
the Internet economy. 

Please, if you could give me a few minutes of your valuable time or guide me
to the right person to describe the significant benefits of what we offer."

Web Site:  http://www.businesslayers.com

Demo-Site: http://demo.businesslayers.com
User: blayers
Pass: blayers

Thank you for your time.


Steve Knight
SC Regional Sales Manager
Business Layers, Inc.
817-490-0170 






Message-ID: <5550308.1075857279636.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 6 Jun 2000 04:43:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: jwahl@cinergy.com
To: benjamin.rogers@enron.com
Subject: Confidential Agreement
Cc: mcyrus@cinergy.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: mcyrus@cinergy.com


This follows up on your voice mail message regarding the status of the
Confidentiality Agreement in light of renewed discussions between the two
companies.  Attached is the latest draft of the Confidentiality Agreement
which was transmitted to you on May 13.  Please call me with any comments or
questions.

 <<Confidential AGrement with Enron which was sent to Ben Rogers on 51200  -
this version is a clean version accepting all blacklined changes from
59437v3.DOC>>

 - Confidential AGrement with Enron which was sent to Ben Rogers on 51200  - 
this version is a clean version accepting all blacklined changes from 
59437v3.DOC





Message-ID: <8296592.1075857154467.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 15 Jun 2000 01:16:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: benjamin.rogers@enron.com
To: jwahl@cinergy.com
Subject: Re: Confidential Agreement
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit


Jennifer:
Here is the latest CA for Jerry to review.  Please send him this e-mail 
asap.  Thanks!

Ben Rogers






Message-ID: <29555721.1075857154511.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 14 Jun 2000 06:28:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: benjamin.rogers@enron.com
To: stuart.zisman@enron.com
Subject: Confidential Agreement
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit


Here is the latest copy.  Once you may the changes I am going to run it by 
Mark Metts and send it over to CINergy.  I am trying to get this sogned 
today, so I can head down to Florida to meet up with Don and company.  Thanks

Ben
---------------------- Forwarded by Benjamin Rogers/HOU/ECT on 06/14/2000 
01:27 PM ---------------------------

    "Wahl, Jennifer" <jwahl@Cinergy.com> on 06/06/2000 10:43:34 AM
        To: "'Ben Rogers'" <benjamin.rogers@enron.com>
        cc: "Cyrus, Michael" <mcyrus@Cinergy.com> 
Subject: Confidential Agreement

This follows up on your voice mail message regarding the status of the
Confidentiality Agreement in light of renewed discussions between the two
companies.  Attached is the latest draft of the Confidentiality Agreement
which was transmitted to you on May 13.  Please call me with any comments or
questions.

     <<Confidential AGrement with Enron which was sent to Ben Rogers on 51200  -
this version is a clean version accepting all blacklined changes from
59437v3.DOC>>

 - Confidential AGrement with Enron which was sent to Ben Rogers on 51200  - 
this version is a clean version accepting all blacklined changes from 
59437v3.DOC






Message-ID: <17394516.1075863362388.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 20 Jul 2001 09:53:03 -0700 (PDT)
From: rick.buy@enron.com
To: donna.lowry@enron.com
Subject: FW: Confidential Information and Securities Trading
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit


i think i did this properly. any way you can check? rick
-----Original Message-----
From: Office of the Chairman - Enron Wholesale Services [mailto:legalonline-compliance@enron.com]
Sent: Wednesday, July 11, 2001 10:16 AM
To: BUY@mailman.enron.com; Buy, Rick
Subject: Confidential Information and Securities Trading

To:BUY, RICHARD
Email:rick.buy@enron.com - 7138534739

Enron Wholesale Services - Office of the Chairman

 
From: Mark Frevert, Chairman & CEO
 
 Mark Haedicke, Managing Director & General Counsel

Subject: Confidential Information and Securities Trading

To keep pace with the fluid and fast-changing demands of our equity trading activities, Enron Wholesale Services ("EWS") has recently revised its official Policies and Procedures Regarding Confidential Information and Securities Trading ("Policies and Procedures"). These revisions reflect two major developments: (1) our equity trading activities have been extended into the United Kingdom, and (2) in an effort to streamline the information flow process, the "Review Team" will play a more centralized role, so that the role of the "Resource Group" is no longer necessary.You are required to become familiar with, and to comply with, the Policies and Procedures. The newly revised Policies and Procedures are available for your review on LegalOnline, the new intranet website maintained by the Enron Wholesale Services Legal Department. Please click on the attached link to access LegalOnline:

<http://legalonline.corp.enron.com/chinesewall.asp>

If you have already certified compliance with the Policies and Procedures during the 2001 calendar year, you need not re-certify at this time, although you are still required to to review and become familiar with the revised Policies and Procedures. If you have not certified compliance with the Policies and Procedures during the 2001 calendar year, then you must do so within two weeks of your receipt of this message. The LegalOnline site will allow you to quickly and conveniently certify your compliance on-line with your SAP Personal ID number. If you have any questions concerning the Policies or Procedures, please call Bob Bruce at extension 5-7780 or Donna Lowry at extension 3-1939. 





Message-ID: <6316972.1075852466973.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 16 Aug 2001 10:33:21 -0700 (PDT)
From: john.shelk@enron.com
To: d..steffes@enron.com, sarah.novosel@enron.com, charles.yeung@enron.com
Subject: Deadline Today -- Draft Enron Comments on NERC Bill
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit


Attached are suggested comments on the draft NERC bill for which we were asked to provide comments by today.  You will see that the response is a firm, but polite -- no thanks.  While I doubt NERC assumes that silence means support by their deadline today, I would like to get something to them by COB if at all possible.  (I will be on vacation tomorrow in any event).  With apologies for the short turn around, please call or e-mail your comments or OK this afternoon.

John






Message-ID: <3024882.1075852475408.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Sat, 25 Aug 2001 18:17:17 -0700 (PDT)
From: cfr@vnf.com
To: linda.robertson@enron.com
Subject: PRIVILEGED AND CONFIDENTIAL - Christopher Stelzer Draft
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit


Attached is the draft testimony of Christopher Stelzer, on behalf of Avista Energy.

If possible, we would appreciate comments no later than 3:00 PM EST on Sunday, August 26.  Comments can be faxed to my attention at 202/338-2416 or emailed to cfr@vnf.com or gdb@vnf.com (Gary Bachman).

Thank you.

Cheryl Feik Ryan
Van Ness Feldman, P.C.
1050 Thomas Jefferson Street NW
Washington DC 20007
202/298-1845
cfr@vnf.com

This email message is intended solely for the individual or individuals named above.  It may contain confidential attorney-client privileged information and/or attorney work product.  If the reader of this message is not the intended recipient, you are requested not to read, copy or distribute it or any of the information it contains.  Please delete it immediately and notify the sender by return email or by telephone.  Thank you.

 - 107177_1.DOC 





Message-ID: <4232569.1075852475436.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Sat, 25 Aug 2001 16:35:13 -0700 (PDT)
From: donk@prestongates.com
Subject: PRIVILEGED AND CONFIDENTIAL - Scott Jones Draft
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit


Attached is the draft testimony of Scott Jones.

Comments should be received no later than 3:00 PM EST on Sunday, August 26.
All comments and suggestions need to be in writing and can be faxed (not
E-mailed) to Dan Watkiss at 202-857-2131.  Also, if your suggestion is a
proposed addition, please write out the exact language you would propose we
incorporate into the testimony and where you would place the addition.

Donald A. Kaplan, Esq.
Preston Gates Ellis &
  Rouvelas Meeds LLP
Suite 500
1735 New York Avenue, N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20006
Ph: (202) 662-8466
Fax: (202) 331-1024
donk@prestongates.com

(See attached file: TFG SJones Draft 8-25-01.doc)(See attached file:
Exhibit STJ-6.xls)(See attached file: Exhibit STJ-3.xls)(See attached file:
Exhibit STJ-4.xls)(See attached file: Exhibit STJ-5.xls)(See attached file:
Exhibit STJ-2.doc)

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTE:
This email message is intended solely for the individual or individuals
named above.  It may contain confidential attorney-client privileged
information and/or attorney work product.  If the reader of this message is
not the intended recipient, you are requested not to read, copy or
distribute it or any of the information it contains.  Please delete it
immediately and notify the sender by return email or by telephone.  Thank
you.

  <<TFG SJones Draft 8-25-01.doc>>  <<Exhibit STJ-6.xls>>  <<Exhibit
  STJ-3.xls>>  <<Exhibit STJ-4.xls>>  <<Exhibit STJ-5.xls>>  <<Exhibit
  STJ-2.doc>>

 - TFG SJones Draft 8-25-01.doc 
 - Exhibit STJ-6.xls 
 - Exhibit STJ-3.xls 
 - Exhibit STJ-4.xls 
 - Exhibit STJ-5.xls 
 - Exhibit STJ-2.doc 





Message-ID: <21565374.1075852477326.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 30 Aug 2001 13:32:27 -0700 (PDT)
From: alan.comnes@enron.com
To: e-mail <.gary@enron.com>, ray.alvarez@enron.com, robert.frank@enron.com, 
	tim.belden@enron.com
Subject: Refund Cases Timelines--Confidential Atty Client Work Product
Cc: d..steffes@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: d..steffes@enron.com


Tim,

Per your request.

Everybody else:  please forward corrections/updates to me.

Thanks,

Alan Comnes







Message-ID: <16267978.1075861634185.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 15 Nov 2001 13:46:02 -0800 (PST)
From: jacton@crai.com
To: d..steffes@enron.com
Subject: Confidential for Dan Watkiss
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit


Jim

If you are able to provide this to Dan for the meeting I would appreciate
it.

He may not want to circulate it to the group.  It is intended as a work
product for attorney.

This e-mail and the attachments were prepared at the request of counsel.

     <<NOTES FOR DISCUSSION.doc>>

Jan Paul Acton
Vice President
Charles River Associates
1201 F St., NW, Suite 700
Washington, DC 20004-1204
Voice: (202) 662 3902
Fax: (202) 662 3910

****************************************************************************
*****
This electronic message contains information from the consulting firm of
Charles River Associates Inc., which may be confidential or privileged.  The
information is intended for the use of the individual or entity named above.
If you are not the intended recipient, be aware that any disclosure,
copying, distribution or use of the contents of this information is
prohibited.  If you have received this electronic transmission in error,
please notify us by telephone (617 425-3582) or by e-mail
(postmaster@crai.com) immediately.
****************************************************************************
*****

 - NOTES FOR DISCUSSION.doc 





Message-ID: <5100559.1075860488776.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 1 Nov 2000 11:49:00 -0800 (PST)
From: michelle.cash@enron.com
To: felecia.acevedo@enron.com
Subject: Privileged and Confidential communication to my attorneys
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit


Felicia,  Does this sound right to you?  Just wanted to confirm.  Thanks.  
Michelle

---------------------- Forwarded by Michelle Cash/HOU/ECT on 11/01/2000 07:48 
PM ---------------------------

HThomas@gspcorp.com on 11/01/2000 07:19:00 PM
To: michelle.cash@enron.com, david.oxley@enron.com, 
peter.del.vecchio@enron.com
cc: david.howe@enron.com, fran.mayes@enron.com 
Subject: Privileged and Confidential communication to my attorneys

     Michelle and Peter, we (GSP) have determined that we are not a federal
     government contractor.  Based on feedback from GSP employees, we do
     sell newsprint to printers who print material for the federal
     government, but we are a 'second-tier' contractor, not a 'first-tier'
     contractor.  (Pat McCarthy, the local employment law attorney that I
     have been using, used these terms when David Howe and i talked to him
     today.)  Pat informed us that second-tier contractors do not have to
     abide by all the federal government requirements for contractors.

     Based on this, GSP does not plan to file EEO-1 reports or prepare
     affirmative action plans.  In addition, we do not feel that we are
     subject to an OFCCP audit.

     Michelle, since you left me the voicemail telling me that we are not
     included in the Enron EEO-1, i assume that also means that Enron's
     status as a government contractor does not force us to prepare EEO-1
     and AAPs.

     Please advise us if you feel we have made incorrect assumptions on any
     of this.

     Hoyt






Message-ID: <4232844.1075860516484.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 1 Feb 2000 01:43:00 -0800 (PST)
From: mary.hain@enron.com
To: richard.sanders@enron.com, christian.yoder@enron.com, ellen@tca-us.com
Subject: confidential (client-attorney)
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Mary Hain
X-To: Richard Sanders, Christian Yoder, ellen@tca-us.com
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Folder: \Richard_Sanders_Dec2000\Notes Folders\All documents
X-Origin: Sanders-R
X-FileName: rsander.nsf



---------------------- Forwarded by Mary Hain/HOU/ECT on 02/01/2000 09:47 AM 
---------------------------
From: Cooper Richey on 02/01/2000 09:18 AM
To: Mary Hain/HOU/ECT@ECT
cc:  
Subject: confidential (client-attorney)


revised excel workbook is attached




please forward to Ellen B.  


Ellen - I added the statistic you wanted and updated the older ones (you'll 
notice
slightly different prices/occurrences because I hadn't cut off the date at 
Jan 1 2000 - i.e., the averages previously included the last month's worth of 
data.)


 - c






Message-ID: <9302156.1075858668365.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 11 Jul 2001 08:17:28 -0700 (PDT)
From: steven.kean@enron.com
To: jeff.dasovich@enron.com
Subject: FINAL
Cc: susan.mara@enron.com, james.steffes@enron.com, karen.denne@enron.com, 
	b..sanders@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: susan.mara@enron.com, james.steffes@enron.com, karen.denne@enron.com, 
	b..sanders@enron.com


Attached is the final letter.  Please note - there was a small change at the top of page 2.






Message-ID: <4890112.1075845067403.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 10 Apr 2001 11:52:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: beth.apollo@enron.com
To: shona.wilson@enron.com, jeffrey.gossett@enron.com, stacey.white@enron.com, 
	d.hall@enron.com, sheri.thomas@enron.com, brenda.herod@enron.com, 
	john.j.boudreaux@us.arthurandersen.com, 
	john.vickers@us.arthurandersen.com, kate.agnew@us.arthurandersen.com, 
	jennifer.stevenson@us.arthurandersen.com
Subject: Confidential Folder to safely pass information to Arthur Andersen
Cc: sally.beck@enron.com, tom.bauer@us.arthurandersen.com, 
	georgeanne.hodges@enron.com, vanessa.schulte@enron.com, 
	bob.hall@enron.com, leslie.reeves@enron.com, brent.price@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: sally.beck@enron.com, tom.bauer@us.arthurandersen.com, 
	georgeanne.hodges@enron.com, vanessa.schulte@enron.com, 
	bob.hall@enron.com, leslie.reeves@enron.com, brent.price@enron.com


We have become increasingly concerned about confidential information (dpr/position info, curves, validations/stress tests, etc) being passed to Arthur Andersen for audit purposes over the Web to their Arthur Andersen email addresses. (necessary now they no longer have access to Enron's internal email system) 

Please use the folder described below when passing any info (that you would have concerns about if it was picked up by a third party) via the shared drive that has been set up for this specific purpose. 

Note: AA should also use the shared drive to pass info back if there are questions, or the data needs updating. We should also consider the sensitivity of audit findings and special presentations if they are being distributed electronically.

Please pass this note to others in your groups who have the need to pass info back and forth.

 
Details on how to access for those who will use this method to pass info:

A secured folder has been set up on the "o" drive under Corporate called Arthur_Andersen (O:\Corporate\Arthur_Anderson). Please post all confidential files in this folder rather than emailing the files to their company email address. If you need access to this folder, submit an eRequest through the IT Central site: http://itcentral.enron.com/Data/Services/SecurityRequests/. Arthur Andersen will be able to retrieve these files for review with their terminal server access at the Three Allen Center location.

Please contact Vanessa Schulte if you have any problems or questions

Beth Apollo





Message-ID: <22659969.1075858453952.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 31 May 2001 19:11:52 -0700 (PDT)
From: pannesley@riskwaters.com
To: j.kaminski@enron.com
Subject: RE: Risk 2001 Australia
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit


Thanks Vince - I'll give him a try.

-----Original Message-----
From: Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com [mailto:Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com]
Sent: Thursday, May 31, 2001 10:03 PM
To: pannesley@riskwaters.com
Subject: RE: Risk 2001 Australia

Philip,

Please, try Frank Wolak from Stanford University.

He is the best expert on California right now.

Vince

 -----Original Message-----
 From: "philip annesley" <pannesley@riskwaters.com>@ENRON

[mailto:IMCEANOTES-+22philip+20annesley+22+20+3Cpannesley+40riskwaters+2Ecom
+3E+40ENRON@ENRON.com]

 Sent: Wednesday, May 30, 2001 7:50 PM
 To: Kaminski, Vince J
 Subject: RE: Risk 2001 Australia

 Vince

 Thanks for coming back to me on this anyway. Would you be able to
 suggest
 anyone else - either in Australia, Europe or US who would be good to get
 to
 discuss the California crisis?

 kind regards.

 Philip

 -----Original Message-----
 From: Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com [mailto:Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com]
 Sent: Thursday, May 31, 2001 12:00 AM
 To: pannesley@riskwaters.com
 Cc: Vkaminski@aol.com
 Subject: RE: Risk 2001 Australia

 Philip,

 I have to decline the invitation with regrets.
 I have too many commitments right now.

 Vince Kaminski

 -----Original Message-----
 From: "philip annesley" <pannesley@riskwaters.com>@ENRON

[mailto:IMCEANOTES-+22philip+20annesley+22+20+3Cpannesley+40riskwaters+2Ecom
 +3E+40ENRON@ENRON.com]

 Sent: Monday, May 28, 2001 3:27 AM
 To: vkamins@enron.com
 Subject: Risk 2001 Australia

 Dear Vince

 Just a quick message to follow up on the email that I sent you
 recently
 inviting you to speak at our forthcoming congress, Risk 2001
 Australia,
 which is taking place in Sydney on 20 & 21 August 2001. Have you had
 an
 opportunity to consider the invitation yet? We are aiming to have the
 programme printed next week, so I would really need to know as soon
 as
 possible if you would be available to speak at this year's congress.

 I am working from our Hong Kong office for this week only (Tel: +852
 2545
 2710), and I can be contacted by phone there or by email.

 Kind regards.

 Philip

 Philip Annesley
 Conference Producer
 Risk Waters Group

 +44 20 7484 9866
 +44 20 7484 9800

 www.risk-conferences.com/risk2001aus







Message-ID: <25447472.1075856582182.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 14 Jun 2000 09:16:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: steven.leppard@enron.com
To: dale.surbey@enron.com
Subject: Security question
Cc: grant.masson@enron.com, vince.kaminski@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: grant.masson@enron.com, vince.kaminski@enron.com


Dear guys

Having been out of the office for a couple of days, I've found myself the 
victim of theft (again).  This time my desk drawer key has been stolen from 
its "hiding place" under my telephone.  I *always* lock my drawers and keep 
the key in the same place, but on arriving in the office today I found the 
drawers unlocked, and the key missing.  Although there's nothing sensitive on 
or around my desk, I'm concerned about the security implications of someone 
sniffing around the office in this manner.  I also found the papers on my 
desk extensively reshuffled last week.

Last year, in our old office, I had my only two real options books stolen 
from among the many and varied books on my desk.  That couldn't have been a 
random theft, and I fear this isn't either.  I can't understand who'd be so 
interested in a Research guy's belongings!

Can we ask security to check their surveillance footage for any suspicious 
activity around my desk?

Cheers,
Steve





Message-ID: <7553175.1075863444700.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Mon, 17 Sep 2001 21:01:37 -0700 (PDT)
From: wolak@zia.stanford.edu
To: j.kaminski@enron.com
Subject: 
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit


Vince,

  I agree with you that it's a lesson people need to learn
over and over again.  I can't tell you how many politicians
I met over the past year who really don't like markets and
certainly don't understand how or why they work.  These
aren't just the minor leaguers in Sacramento, but the big
league players in Washington.

  I also agree that the academic community can play "an important
role in shaping public opinion and in explaining the logic of
deregulation process."  I'd like to think that is in large
part what I have been trying to do.

Frank





Message-ID: <30170440.1075856614663.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Sun, 10 Dec 2000 03:03:00 -0800 (PST)
From: vkaminski@aol.com
To: vkamins@enron.com
Subject: Fwd: Successful purchase of NBER Paper
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit


Return-Path: <Gregory_Gordon@ssrn.com>
Received: from rly-xd03.mx.aol.com (rly-xd03.mail.aol.com [172.20.105.168]) 
by air-xd05.mail.aol.com (v77.14) with ESMTP; Sun, 10 Dec 2000 10:57:06 -0500
Received: from zeus.ssrn.com (zeus.ssrn.com [38.202.236.235]) by 
rly-xd03.mx.aol.com (v77.27) with ESMTP; Sun, 10 Dec 2000 10:56:51 -0500
Received: from ssrn.com ([38.202.236.235]) by zeus.ssrn.com 
(Post.Office MTA v3.5.3 release 223 ID# 0-61092U100L2S100V35) with 
SMTP id com; Sun, 10 Dec 2000 10:56:50 -0500
Subject: Successful purchase of NBER Paper
Date: Sun, 10 Dec 2000 10:56:49 -0500
From: Gregory_Gordon@ssrn.com (Gregory_Gordon)
To: <vkaminski@aol.com>
CC:
Message-ID: <20001210155650048.AAA365@zeus.ssrn.com@ssrn.com>

Dear Wincenty Kaminski:

Thank you for your purchase at Social Science Research Network. Your
credit card has been charged $ 5.00. This charge will appear on your
statement as Social Science Electronic Publishing, our parent company.
The confirmation number for this transaction is NBER_103397 and a
summary of your order is below.

If you have any questions about this charge please email
Mailto:NBERSupport@ssrn.com for assistance.

If you have any comments or suggestions about how SSRN can improve this
service, please let me know at Mailto:Gregory_Gordon@ssrn.com.

Thank you,
 
Gregory Gordon
 
President

ORDER INFORMATION
================================
Diagnosing Market Power in California's Restructured Wholesale
Electricity Market
NBER Collection
Borenstein / Bushnell / Wolak

BILLING INFORMATION
================================
Wincenty Kaminski
1400 Smith
Houston, TX 77002
USA
713 853 3848





Message-ID: <5428433.1075857060219.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 11 Jan 2000 00:02:00 -0800 (PST)
From: richard.shapiro@enron.com
To: vince.kaminski@enron.com
Subject: Re: Congratulations
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit


Thanks.

Vince J Kaminski@ECT
01/11/2000 08:01 AM
To: Richard Shapiro/HOU/EES@EES
cc:  
Subject: Congratulations

Rick,

I have just looked at the memo regarding promotions.
Congratulations - well deserved.

Vince







Message-ID: <29291085.1075856621619.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 28 Nov 2000 05:32:00 -0800 (PST)
From: shirley.crenshaw@enron.com
To: jmyan@stanford.edu
Subject: Re: Telephone Interview with The Enron Corp. Research Group
Cc: lance.cunningham@enron.com, alex.huang@enron.com, vince.kaminski@enron.com, 
	vasant.shanbhogue@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=ANSI_X3.4-1968
Content-Transfer-Encoding: quoted-printable
Bcc: lance.cunningham@enron.com, alex.huang@enron.com, vince.kaminski@enron.com, 
	vasant.shanbhogue@enron.com


Marshall:

Thanks for responding so quickly. I have scheduled the following intervie=
w:

Wednesday, December 6 - 1:00 PM Houston time. It will last approximately
1 hour. We will call you at (605) 497-4045 unless otherwise instructed.

If you have any questions, please feel free to contact me at 713/853-5290.

Best regards,

Shirley Crenshaw

"Jingming 'Marshall' Yan" <jmyan@stanford.edu> on 11/28/2000 12:59:55 PM
To: Shirley.Crenshaw@enron.com
cc: Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com=20
Subject: Re: Telephone Interview with The Enron Corp. Research Group

Ms. Crenshaw,

 Thank you very much for the message. I am very interested in the
opportunity to talk to personnel from the Research Group at Enron. Between
the two days you suggest, I prefer Wednesday 12/6. Considering the
two-hour time difference between California and Texas, 11:00 am Pacific
time (1:00 pm your time) seems to be a good slot. However, I am open most
of the day on 12/6 so if some other time slot is prefered on your end,
please let me know.

 Thanks again. I look forward to talking to you and your
colleagues.

Jingming

On Tue, 28 Nov 2000 Shirley.Crenshaw@enron.com wrote:

> Good afternoon Jingming:
>
> Professor Wolak forwarded your resume to the Research Group, and
> they would like to conduct a telephone interview with you, sometime next
> week, at your convenience. The best days would be Tuesday, 12/5 or
> Wednesday, 12/6.
>
> Please let me know which day and what time would be best for you and
> they will call you. Let me know the telephone number that you wish to be
> contacted at.
>
> The interviewers would be:
>
> Vince Kaminski Managing Director and Head of Research
> Vasant Shanbhogue Vice President, Research
> Lance Cunningham Manager, Research
> Alex Huang Manager, Research
>
> Look forward to hearing from you.
>
> Best regards,
>
> Shirley Crenshaw
> Administrative Coordinator
> Enron Research Group.
> 713-853-5290
>
>
>

---------------------------------------------------------
Jingming "Marshall" Yan jmyan@leland.stanford.edu
Department of Economics (650)497-4045 (H)
Stanford University (650)725-8914 (O)
Stanford, CA 94305 358C, Economics Bldg
----------------------------------------------------------
If one seeks to act virtuously and attain it, then what is
there to repine about? -- Confucius







Message-ID: <18205244.1075856621671.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 28 Nov 2000 02:59:00 -0800 (PST)
From: jmyan@stanford.edu
To: shirley.crenshaw@enron.com
Subject: Re: Telephone Interview with The Enron Corp. Research Group
Cc: vince.j.kaminski@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=ANSI_X3.4-1968
Content-Transfer-Encoding: quoted-printable
Bcc: vince.j.kaminski@enron.com


Ms. Crenshaw,

 Thank you very much for the message. I am very interested in the
opportunity to talk to personnel from the Research Group at Enron. Between
the two days you suggest, I prefer Wednesday 12/6. Considering the
two-hour time difference between California and Texas, 11:00 am Pacific
time (1:00 pm your time) seems to be a good slot. However, I am open most
of the day on 12/6 so if some other time slot is prefered on your end,
please let me know.

 Thanks again. I look forward to talking to you and your
colleagues.

Jingming

On Tue, 28 Nov 2000 Shirley.Crenshaw@enron.com wrote:

> Good afternoon Jingming:
>
> Professor Wolak forwarded your resume to the Research Group, and
> they would like to conduct a telephone interview with you, sometime next
> week, at your convenience. The best days would be Tuesday, 12/5 or
> Wednesday, 12/6.
>
> Please let me know which day and what time would be best for you and
> they will call you. Let me know the telephone number that you wish to be
> contacted at.
>
> The interviewers would be:
>
> Vince Kaminski Managing Director and Head of Research
> Vasant Shanbhogue Vice President, Research
> Lance Cunningham Manager, Research
> Alex Huang Manager, Research
>
> Look forward to hearing from you.
>
> Best regards,
>
> Shirley Crenshaw
> Administrative Coordinator
> Enron Research Group.
> 713-853-5290
>
>
>

---------------------------------------------------------
Jingming "Marshall" Yan jmyan@leland.stanford.edu
Department of Economics (650)497-4045 (H)
Stanford University (650)725-8914 (O)
Stanford, CA 94305 358C, Economics Bldg
----------------------------------------------------------
If one seeks to act virtuously and attain it, then what is
there to repine about? -- Confucius







Message-ID: <3454095.1075840788231.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 29 Jan 2002 12:07:33 -0800 (PST)
From: j.kaminski@enron.com
To: wbalson@crai.com
Subject: RE: I've joined Charles River Associates
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit


Bill,


Yes, one of the options I am looking at.

Vince

 -----Original Message-----
From: 	"Balson, William" <wbalson@crai.com>@ENRON  
Sent:	Tuesday, January 29, 2002 1:53 PM
To:	Kaminski, Vince J
Subject:	RE: I've joined Charles River Associates

 Have you considered joining a consultancy?

-----Original Message-----
From: Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com
To: wbalson@crai.com
Sent: 1/29/02 11:43 AM
Subject: RE: I've joined Charles River Associates

Bill,

Lacima is relatively small, but they have two very competent
and experienced principals: Chris Strickland and Les Clewlow.

I am looking right now at a number of options. Hopefully, I shall make a
decision
within a few weeks.

Vince

    -----Original Message-----
   From:   "Balson, William" <wbalson@crai.com>@ENRON
   Sent:   Tuesday, January 29, 2002 1:30 PM
   To:     Kaminski, Vince J
   Subject:  RE: I've joined Charles River Associates

    Have you developed plans?  I'd be interested in your evaluation of
   Lakima
   Group, whom I believe you've worked with.  How big are they?

   -----Original Message-----
   From: Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com
   To: wbalson@crai.com
   Sent: 1/29/02 11:12 AM
   Subject: RE: I've joined Charles River Associates

   Bill,

   Delayed congratulations.

   Vince

       -----Original Message-----
   From:   "Balson, William" <wbalson@crai.com>@ENRON
      Sent:   Monday, December 10, 2001 5:14 PM
      To:     'vkamins@enron.com'
      Subject:  I've joined Charles River Associates

      Hi Vince -
      Its very sad to see what has happened.  I hope you are doing OK
under
      the
      circumstances.  I wanted also to let you know that I'm
transitioning
   to
      an
      advisory role at Opt4  since they are now in a more operational
mode,
      rather
      than developmental.  I've joined Charles River Associates in the
Palo
      Alto
      office. What are your plans for the future?  I would like to
extend
   an
      invitation to get to know us better, and perhaps to collaborate if
   our
      interests coincide.  When do you get back from vacation?

      Bill Balson
      Vice President
      Charles River Associates
      285 Hamilton Avenue
      Palo Alto, CA 94301
      Direct: 650-847-2227  Cell: 650-823-2510 FAX: 650-325-2488
      wbalson@crai.com

**********************************************************************
   This e-mail is the property of Enron Corp. and/or its relevant
affiliate
   and may contain confidential and privileged material for the sole use
of
   the intended recipient (s). Any review, use, distribution or
disclosure
   by others is strictly prohibited. If you are not the intended
recipient
   (or authorized to receive for the recipient), please contact the
sender
   or reply to Enron Corp. at enron.messaging.administration@enron.com
and
   delete all copies of the message. This e-mail (and any attachments
   hereto) are not intended to be an offer (or an acceptance) and do not
   create or evidence a binding and enforceable contract between Enron
   Corp. (or any of its affiliates) and the intended recipient or any
other
   party, and may not be relied on by anyone as the basis of a contract
by
   estoppel or otherwise. Thank you.

**********************************************************************





Message-ID: <18298171.1075840788676.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 29 Jan 2002 10:22:03 -0800 (PST)
From: j.kaminski@enron.com
To: vkaminski@aol.com
Subject: FW: Issues with Exotica Library
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit


 
-----Original Message-----
From: Rajan, Karthik 
Sent: Monday, January 28, 2002 6:39 PM
To: Kaminski, Vince J; Yang, Sean; Stock, Steve
Subject: RE: Issues with Exotica Library

Vince/Sean,
I will talk to you Zimin/ Tom tonight at their home number and get the passwords as well as the security feature. 
 I will drop by your (Sean) desk first thing tomorrow.
Sorry for the delay.
 
Karthik.

-----Original Message----- 
From: Kaminski, Vince J 
Sent: Mon 1/28/2002 11:27 AM 
To: Yang, Sean; Rajan, Karthik; Stock, Steve 
Cc: 
Subject: Re: Issues with Exotica Library

Karthik, 
If you cannot find the answer, please call Zimin. I shall call him at home tonight as well. 
Vince
 
--------------------------vince kaminski 





Message-ID: <7428438.1075858478927.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 1 Jun 2001 06:39:38 -0700 (PDT)
From: kaminski@enron.com
To: pannesley@riskwaters.com
Subject: RE: Risk 2001 Australia
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit


Philip,

Frank's E-mail:

wolak@zia.stanford.edu

Vince

 -----Original Message-----
From: 	"philip annesley" <pannesley@riskwaters.com>@ENRON [mailto:IMCEANOTES-+22philip+20annesley+22+20+3Cpannesley+40riskwaters+2Ecom+3E+40ENRON@ENRON.com] 
Sent:	Thursday, May 31, 2001 9:12 PM
To:	Kaminski, Vince J
Subject:	RE: Risk 2001 Australia

Thanks Vince - I'll give him a try.

-----Original Message-----
From: Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com [mailto:Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com]
Sent: Thursday, May 31, 2001 10:03 PM
To: pannesley@riskwaters.com
Subject: RE: Risk 2001 Australia

Philip,

Please, try Frank Wolak from Stanford University.

He is the best expert on California right now.

Vince

 -----Original Message-----
 From: "philip annesley" <pannesley@riskwaters.com>@ENRON

[mailto:IMCEANOTES-+22philip+20annesley+22+20+3Cpannesley+40riskwaters+2Ecom
+3E+40ENRON@ENRON.com]

 Sent: Wednesday, May 30, 2001 7:50 PM
 To: Kaminski, Vince J
 Subject: RE: Risk 2001 Australia

 Vince

 Thanks for coming back to me on this anyway. Would you be able to
 suggest
 anyone else - either in Australia, Europe or US who would be good to get
 to
 discuss the California crisis?

 kind regards.

 Philip

 -----Original Message-----
 From: Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com [mailto:Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com]
 Sent: Thursday, May 31, 2001 12:00 AM
 To: pannesley@riskwaters.com
 Cc: Vkaminski@aol.com
 Subject: RE: Risk 2001 Australia

 Philip,

 I have to decline the invitation with regrets.
 I have too many commitments right now.

 Vince Kaminski

 -----Original Message-----
 From: "philip annesley" <pannesley@riskwaters.com>@ENRON

[mailto:IMCEANOTES-+22philip+20annesley+22+20+3Cpannesley+40riskwaters+2Ecom
 +3E+40ENRON@ENRON.com]

 Sent: Monday, May 28, 2001 3:27 AM
 To: vkamins@enron.com
 Subject: Risk 2001 Australia

 Dear Vince

 Just a quick message to follow up on the email that I sent you
 recently
 inviting you to speak at our forthcoming congress, Risk 2001
 Australia,
 which is taking place in Sydney on 20 & 21 August 2001. Have you had
 an
 opportunity to consider the invitation yet? We are aiming to have the
 programme printed next week, so I would really need to know as soon
 as
 possible if you would be available to speak at this year's congress.

 I am working from our Hong Kong office for this week only (Tel: +852
 2545
 2710), and I can be contacted by phone there or by email.

 Kind regards.

 Philip

 Philip Annesley
 Conference Producer
 Risk Waters Group

 +44 20 7484 9866
 +44 20 7484 9800

 www.risk-conferences.com/risk2001aus







Message-ID: <27274423.1075858478951.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 1 Jun 2001 06:39:15 -0700 (PDT)
From: kaminski@enron.com
To: wolak@zia.stanford.edu
Subject: FW: Risk 2001 Australia
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit


Frank,

FYI

Vince

 -----Original Message-----
From: 	"philip annesley" <pannesley@riskwaters.com>@ENRON [mailto:IMCEANOTES-+22philip+20annesley+22+20+3Cpannesley+40riskwaters+2Ecom+3E+40ENRON@ENRON.com] 
Sent:	Thursday, May 31, 2001 9:12 PM
To:	Kaminski, Vince J
Subject:	RE: Risk 2001 Australia

Thanks Vince - I'll give him a try.

-----Original Message-----
From: Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com [mailto:Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com]
Sent: Thursday, May 31, 2001 10:03 PM
To: pannesley@riskwaters.com
Subject: RE: Risk 2001 Australia

Philip,

Please, try Frank Wolak from Stanford University.

He is the best expert on California right now.

Vince

 -----Original Message-----
 From: "philip annesley" <pannesley@riskwaters.com>@ENRON

[mailto:IMCEANOTES-+22philip+20annesley+22+20+3Cpannesley+40riskwaters+2Ecom
+3E+40ENRON@ENRON.com]

 Sent: Wednesday, May 30, 2001 7:50 PM
 To: Kaminski, Vince J
 Subject: RE: Risk 2001 Australia

 Vince

 Thanks for coming back to me on this anyway. Would you be able to
 suggest
 anyone else - either in Australia, Europe or US who would be good to get
 to
 discuss the California crisis?

 kind regards.

 Philip

 -----Original Message-----
 From: Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com [mailto:Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com]
 Sent: Thursday, May 31, 2001 12:00 AM
 To: pannesley@riskwaters.com
 Cc: Vkaminski@aol.com
 Subject: RE: Risk 2001 Australia

 Philip,

 I have to decline the invitation with regrets.
 I have too many commitments right now.

 Vince Kaminski

 -----Original Message-----
 From: "philip annesley" <pannesley@riskwaters.com>@ENRON

[mailto:IMCEANOTES-+22philip+20annesley+22+20+3Cpannesley+40riskwaters+2Ecom
 +3E+40ENRON@ENRON.com]

 Sent: Monday, May 28, 2001 3:27 AM
 To: vkamins@enron.com
 Subject: Risk 2001 Australia

 Dear Vince

 Just a quick message to follow up on the email that I sent you
 recently
 inviting you to speak at our forthcoming congress, Risk 2001
 Australia,
 which is taking place in Sydney on 20 & 21 August 2001. Have you had
 an
 opportunity to consider the invitation yet? We are aiming to have the
 programme printed next week, so I would really need to know as soon
 as
 possible if you would be available to speak at this year's congress.

 I am working from our Hong Kong office for this week only (Tel: +852
 2545
 2710), and I can be contacted by phone there or by email.

 Kind regards.

 Philip

 Philip Annesley
 Conference Producer
 Risk Waters Group

 +44 20 7484 9866
 +44 20 7484 9800

 www.risk-conferences.com/risk2001aus







Message-ID: <14136486.1075858478980.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 31 May 2001 07:03:21 -0700 (PDT)
From: kaminski@enron.com
To: pannesley@riskwaters.com
Subject: RE: Risk 2001 Australia
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit


Philip,

Please, try Frank Wolak from Stanford University.

He is the best expert on California right now.

Vince

 -----Original Message-----
From: 	"philip annesley" <pannesley@riskwaters.com>@ENRON [mailto:IMCEANOTES-+22philip+20annesley+22+20+3Cpannesley+40riskwaters+2Ecom+3E+40ENRON@ENRON.com] 
Sent:	Wednesday, May 30, 2001 7:50 PM
To:	Kaminski, Vince J
Subject:	RE: Risk 2001 Australia

Vince

Thanks for coming back to me on this anyway. Would you be able to suggest
anyone else - either in Australia, Europe or US who would be good to get to
discuss the California crisis?

kind regards.

Philip

-----Original Message-----
From: Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com [mailto:Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com]
Sent: Thursday, May 31, 2001 12:00 AM
To: pannesley@riskwaters.com
Cc: Vkaminski@aol.com
Subject: RE: Risk 2001 Australia

Philip,

I have to decline the invitation with regrets.
I have too many commitments right now.

Vince Kaminski

    -----Original Message-----
   From:   "philip annesley" <pannesley@riskwaters.com>@ENRON

[mailto:IMCEANOTES-+22philip+20annesley+22+20+3Cpannesley+40riskwaters+2Ecom
+3E+40ENRON@ENRON.com]

   Sent:   Monday, May 28, 2001 3:27 AM
   To:     vkamins@enron.com
   Subject:  Risk 2001 Australia

   Dear Vince

   Just a quick message to follow up on the email that I sent you recently
   inviting you to speak at our forthcoming congress, Risk 2001 Australia,
   which is taking place in Sydney on 20 & 21 August 2001. Have you had an
   opportunity to consider the invitation yet? We are aiming to have the
   programme printed next week, so I would really need to know as soon as
   possible if you would be available to speak at this year's congress.

   I am working from our Hong Kong office for this week only (Tel: +852
   2545
   2710), and I can be contacted by phone there or by email.

   Kind regards.

   Philip

   Philip Annesley
   Conference Producer
   Risk Waters Group

   +44 20 7484 9866
   +44 20 7484 9800

   www.risk-conferences.com/risk2001aus






Message-ID: <25473912.1075863420369.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 15 May 2001 06:07:31 -0700 (PDT)
From: j.kaminski@enron.com
To: wade.cline@enron.com
Subject: RE: Help for Krishnarao Pinnamaneni
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit


Wade, 

Thanks for your help. Krishna advised me of the conversation he had with you.

Vince

 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Cline, Wade  
Sent:	Monday, May 14, 2001 1:37 AM
To:	Vince.Kaminski@enron.com
Subject:	Re: Help for Krishnarao Pinnamaneni

---------------------- Forwarded by Wade Cline/ENRON_DEVELOPMENT on 05/14/2001 12:04 PM ---------------------------

Delivery Failure Report
Your document:	Re: Help for Krishnarao Pinnamaneni	
was not delivered to:	Vince J. Kaminski/ENRON@enronXgate	
because:	Invalid/unknown recipient [MAPI Reason Code: 1, MAPI Diagnostic Code 1]	

What should you do?
You can resend the undeliverable document to the recipients listed above by choosing the Resend button or the Resend command on the Actions menu.  
Once you have resent the document you may delete this Delivery Failure Report.
If resending the document is not successful you will receive a new failure report
Unless you receive other Delivery Failure Reports, the document was successfully delivered to all other recipients.

NAHOU-MSCNX02-LME-NOTES/NA/ENRON, NAHOU-LNINT01/Enron, ENE-NS03/Enron, EI-NHUB01/ENRON_DEVELOPMENT, EI-NMUMBAI01/ENRON_DEVELOPMENT

________________________

To:	Vince J. Kaminski/ENRON@enronXgate
cc:	Pinnamaneni Krishnarao/ENRON@enronXgate
From:	Wade Cline/ENRON_DEVELOPMENT@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT
Date:	05/14/2001 12:49:39 AM CDT
Subject:	Re: Help for Krishnarao Pinnamaneni

Vince, I will certainly try. I am not optimistic primarily because this is handled out of Chennai, as it must since the parents are residents of Andhra Pradesh. Our earlier requests for visas from Chennai have been a very mixed bag, with us being turned down more often than not. The fact of the matter is that the visa officers in the respective consulates have incredible amounts of discretion and ability to say no. Once they say no, it is very difficult to reverse.

But I will go through our good contacts at the US Consulate in Mumbai, as this has had more success than us speaking directly to Chennai. 

Wade

From:	Vince J. Kaminski/ENRON@enronXgate on 05/11/2001 10:37 AM CDT
To:	Wade Cline/ENRON_DEVELOPMENT@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT
cc:	Vince J. Kaminski/ENRON@enronXgate, Pinnamaneni Krishnarao/ENRON@enronXgate 

Subject:	Help for Krishnarao Pinnamaneni

Wade,

I am writing to ask you to help my associate, Krishnarao Pinnamaneni, who
faces a very difficult personal situation. You probably remember Krishna
from his visits to our Bombay office when he was helping you on a few projects.

A brief outline of the facts.

1. His wife is pregnant. She gave birth to their daughter, Pallavi, a few years
ago after a very complicated pregnancy. Pallavi was a premature child and her survival
was a miracle (we all thank the Almighty for this wonderful child). Current pregnancy
is also very complicated.

2. Krishna invited his in-laws to visit and stay with them to care for his wife. The application for a 
tourist  visa was denied and the reason given for the denial was that they had overstayed the
term of the visa during the previous  visit. The irony is that they complied with
the US laws: they had asked for an extension of the visa and the extension was granted.

The company can, of course, intervene on Krishna's behalf. Krishna made an 
outstanding contribution to Enron (he is currently a VP) and to the American 
society. I am sure that Ken Lay would have no objections to write a letter on his 
behalf to the State Department.

I would prefer, however, to try informal channels first to avoid confrontational
approach. It may be better for all the involved in the long-run.

I hope you can use your personal contacts to intervene on Krishna's
behalf and ask for a reversal of the decision on humanitarian grounds. 
I shall fax to you a copy of the decision.

Thanks.

Vince

 << File: Krishna's Letter.DOC >> 






Message-ID: <24575622.1075863420436.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 15 May 2001 06:09:33 -0700 (PDT)
From: j.kaminski@enron.com
To: steve.leppard@enron.com
Subject: RE: Final Research PRC
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit


Steve,

It will be my pleasure.

Vince

 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Leppard, Steve  
Sent:	Tuesday, May 15, 2001 4:10 AM
To:	Herbelot, Olivier; Lewis, Richard; Clarke, Niamh; Kaminski, Vince J
Subject:	Final Research PRC

Hi all

The current PRC is the last on which I'll be assessed as a Research guy, so I'd like to ask if you'd be prepared to act as reviewers for me?

Thanks,

Steve





Message-ID: <12911969.1075840163875.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 25 Apr 2001 21:32:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: jeff.skilling@enron.com
To: kevinscott@onlinemailbox.net
Subject: Re: Information for Jeff Skilling from Kevin Scott
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit


Confirming 1:00 p.m. meeting on June 12 at the Venetian Resort in Las Vegas.

Thanks,
 
Joannie Williamson
 
713-345-7774

"Kevin Scott" <kevinscott@onlinemailbox.net> on 04/25/2001 04:46:18 PM
Please respond to <kevinscott@onlinemailbox.net>
To:	"Jeff Skilling" <jeff.skilling@enron.com>
cc:	"Sherri Sera" <sherri.sera@enron.com> 

Subject:	Information for Jeff Skilling from Kevin Scott

April 25, 2001

 
Dear Jeff,

Thank you for setting aside time to meet with me.
I have attached my resume to help bring you up to date on my career.

As you will see, I have been providing advisory services since 1995.
During these years, I have done some of my best work.
I am proud of the service that I have rendered as an independent consultant.

Now, I feel it is time to move to a new chapter in my career.
I look forward to sitting down with you to think through ways to apply my experience, intellect and energies to new professional challenges.
I respect you tremendously, and wherever the next part of my career may lie, I know that my search and choice will benefit significantly from your perspective.

Finally, I am attaching the recommendation to HBS that you wrote in 1981.
I found it during a profoundly challenging period in my life.
Your historic words of support helped me keep fighting and successfully moving forward.

If you would like to reach me before our meeting, please call (213) 926-2626 or email kevinscott@onlinemailbox.net .
Thank you again.

Sincerely,

Kevin

 
Attachments (2)
 - image001.png 
 - image002.gif 
 - Resume of Kevin Scott.doc 
 - Skilling HBS Recommendation.doc 







Message-ID: <28574048.1075852650572.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 20 Jul 2001 10:59:25 -0700 (PDT)
From: kevinscott@onlinemailbox.net
To: skean@enron.com
Subject: Moving foward at a good clip
Cc: jeff.skilling@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=ANSI_X3.4-1968
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: jeff.skilling@enron.com


Steve

Good news. As you indicated would happen, Kalen Pieper called me mid-week. We had a very good conversation about EES and Dave Delainey's leadership. She explored my views about doing business with government. Shortly thereafter, Dave's office called to invite me to Houston on Thursday July 26. 

Kay Chapman explained that Dave's schedule would keep him out of pocket until August 16. In order to move forward, Janet Dietrich will be meeting with me when I go to Houston next Thursday. (I must confess that after all the great things I have heard about the man, I do look forward to meeting Dave himself.)

Is there a time next week that I can speak with you by phone to fine-tune my thinking / preparation for Thursday's meeting with Janet?

Thank you for your all of your help. I am pleased and appreciative that things are moving forward at a good clip. 

Kevin
 
___________________________________
Contact Information
E-mail
kevinscott@onlinemailbox.net 
Phone
(213) 926-2626
Fax
(707) 516-0019
Traditional Mail
PO Box 21074 ?Los Angeles, CA 90021
___________________________________







Message-ID: <1697917.1075852651136.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 17 Jul 2001 16:09:15 -0700 (PDT)
From: bg8862@aol.com
To: jeff.skilling@enron.com
Subject: Tom DeLay CA Aug Dinner & Golf event
Cc: joannie.williamson@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: joannie.williamson@enron.com


Jeff, 
I spoke to Joannie this afternoon and asked for your e-mail to send this  
invitation.   
Here is the initial information on the event. We are expecting additional  
members of Congress to attend both events. If you have any questions or  
comment, please let me know. 
I have attached a word doc. as well: 

Tom DeLay / ARMPAC 
Guest Speaker - David Horowitz   
Four Seasons Aviara - Dinner & Golf Tournament  

The event will take place: 
Wednesday, August 15  
Four Seasons Aviara (Northern San Diego, CA)  
Golf 
Lunch will start at 11am  
Tee times at 12:15pm  
An informal reception afterwards 
Limited to 40 people 
Cost is $5k per person 
Dinner 
Reception 6 to 6:45pm 
Dinner 7 to 8:30pm 
Speakers Tom DeLay and David Horowitz 
$1,500 per person, $2,500 per couple 
There are four levels of sponsorship: $100K, $50k, $25k and $15k.  
Contribution levels will also transfer from the dinner and/or Golf Tournament  
to the ARMPAC "contributor sponsorship program."  

Bill Gowan 
Election Day Consulting, LLC 
1947 Camino Vida Roble, suite 104 
Carlsbad, CA 92009
760 929.1203 
electiondayconsulting.com 

 - Aug 15 Golf dinner.doc 





    Message-ID: <16962899.1075852653726.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 26 Jun 2001 07:21:16 -0700 (PDT)
From: brenda_worley@ypo.org
To: ios_participants@ypo.org
Subject: Inventory of Skills Confidential Inquiry: Joe Jamail
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit


VERY CONFIDENTIAL


The following member has asked for help from the Inventory of Skills (IOS).
You have been identified as one of the few members who has the skill to
assist in this area.  You may or may not have completed an IOS enrollment
form.

All information gathered for IOS is done on a confidential basis and will
remain confidential.  This member has no knowledge regarding who has been
contacted.  If you choose to help, the necessary information follows so
that you may contact this member directly.  If you cannot assist this
member, please contact them or IOS.

IOS asks that you please respond within 72 hours of receiving this request.

Thank you,


Brenda Worley

IOS does not evaluate the validity of any request.
***************************************************************************************************

Name:     Ted L. "Dub" Snider Jr.
Chapter:       Lone Star-Dallas

Phone:  501-401-7601
Fax:    501-401-7628
Email:  dsnider@connect.com
Other:
* Indicated preferred method of contact.

My company has been severely damaged by $50 billion (revenues)Texas based
company
1) refusal to pay  monies owed under a contract.
2)
misrepresenting information used to calculate amounts owed under the
contract
3) appears to have instigated an FBI investigation of our company
regarding a pending civil and regulatory dispute.

I am looking for an introduction to Joe Jamail by someone who knows him.
We need an attorney with the courage, confidence, and track record to
successfully pursue our claim against a powerful adversary.

Thank You.






Message-ID: <19542708.1075852654573.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 20 Jun 2001 12:02:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: kevinscott@onlinemailbox.net
To: kean.steve@enron.com, jeff.skilling@enron.com
Subject: Public Policy Contacts for California
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit


Jeff and  Steve

As you requested, I have  prepared a list of my preferred public policy contacts for  California.  It is composed of professionals from an array of public,  private and non-profit backgrounds.  I have worked in some capacity  with each of these people and most I know quite well.   

Please call me for further  background.

Kevin

213-926-2626

Attachment
 - Kevin Scott -  Preferred Contacts - 6-20-01.doc 



	
		
			HOWDY,
			WHAT'S BEEN GOING ON AMIGO. I HAVE NOT TALKED TO YOU IN A WHILE. GIVE
				YOU THE SCOPE OF WHATS BEEN GOING ON WITH ME. I LEFT OILSTATES BACK IN
				MARCH WITH ANOTHER COMPANY. DID A LOT OF TRAVELING AND THEY (OILSTATES)
				MADE ME A SWEET OFFER TO COME BACK. SO I AM BACK.
			WHO'S GETTING MARRIED? SOUNDS LIKE THIS IS GOING TO BE A GREAT BACHELOR
				PARTY. GIVE ME A CALL SOMETIME CELL: 713 991 - 5621.
			ROB
		
	

	
		
			
				Kim:
				I have completed the invoices for April, May and June and we owe
					Pasadena each month for a total of $3,615,910.62. I am waiting to hear
					back from Patti on May and June to make sure they are okay with her.
					Do you want me to pay Pasadena on Friday for these months or do you
					want me to hold off until I finish July and August? 
				Again, I do not have all of the information for July and August, so I
					cannot give you any numbers. If I go by what is currently in the
					system as a guide, Pasadena would owe Enron a little over $1 mil. I
					need to forecast the money today, so please let me know what you would
					like to do.
				FYI-I will be out of the office all next week.
				Megan
			
			
				Subject: RE: City of Pasadena
				Thanks you so much for working on these as fast as you have - there
					was a priority in getting them out. However, as you know, the less
					cash outlay that we have right now the better. Lets wait and try to
					offset the amount we owe them with what they owe us - so I say wait
					until you get July and August done.
				What do you think the time frame is on this? 
				And when would be the earliest that we would make the payment?
				 Thanks, Kim
			
			
				Subject: RE: City of Pasadena
				Patti is the one with the details, I'm just the deal maker and don't
					have access to any of the systems. All I know is what fixed priced
					baseload deals we have. I have no idea what flows. I hope Patti can
					help you soon.
				Let me know if you don't hear from her today.
				
			
			
				Subject: RE: City of Pasadena
				If I can get all of the information today, I can tell you this
					afternoon. It doesn't take long to create the calc sheets. I
					understand from Janine that you or Patti can provide me with the
					detail that I need. If necessary, I can come pick it up. I have sent
					Patti a list.
				For payment, we have to forecast the money two days out. So, if I
					know today, I can pay on Friday.
				Megan
			
			
				Subject: RE: City of Pasadena
				thats fine - we can't pay them anyway
			
		
	



docno="lists-003-2114716"
received="Fri May 14 14:29:45 1993 EST" 
sent="Fri, 14 May 1993 17:29:24 -0400" 
name="Steve Summit" 
email="scs@adam.mit.edu" 
subject="Re: CHARSET considerations" 
id="9305142129.AA22544@adam.MIT.EDU" 
inreplyto="9305121752.AA00650@dimacs.rutgers.edu" 

To: TROTH@ricevm1.rice.edu, pine-info@cac.washington.edu
Cc: ietf-822@dimacs.rutgers.edu, ietf-charsets@INNOSOFT.COM,




In <9305121752.AA00650@dimacs.rutgers.edu>, Rick wrote:
>         Any user of Pine 3.05 (and as far as I can tell 3.07 or 2.x)
> can shoot themself in the foot  (head if you prefer)  by setting
> character-set = Zeldas_private_codepage.

This is almost certainly a bad idea, especially if (as Rick
implied in another part of the referenced message) the user can do
so by setting a default charset value in a user configuration file
somewhere.  (If users dink with the message headers themselves,
all bets are off.)

> Should the Pine developers remove this feature?

I'm not sure what the feature in question is, but if it's
something which lets users specify the value to be sent out as the
MIME Content-Type: charset, I think it's a bad idea, and should be
removed or significantly altered.

An easy mistake to make (I speak from experience) is to assume
that the charset parameter on a MIME Content-Type: line encodes
the character set used by the entity composing the message, or
the character set to be used by the entity displaying the
message. I find that the best way to think about charset is that
it is *neither*.  charset is an octet-based encoding used during
message transfer; it need bear no relation to the composing or
viewing character sets.  In the most general case, a message will
be composed using some native character set, translated
automatically to a MIME-registered charset, and translated at the
other end into a native display character set.  It should be more
likely that the charset value be selected by an automaton, not by
a human.

(If anyone finds the above paragraph startling, you're welcome to
write to me for clarification.  I'm not going to prolong this
message with additional explanations right now.)

It's not necessarily *wrong* to think of charset as having
something to do with the composing or viewing character set (in
many cases, not coincidentally, all three will be identical), but
it is very easy to make conceptual mistakes, implement
nonconformant software, or just generally misunderstand how MIME
is supposed to work if you don't explicitly separate in your mind
the concepts of composing/viewing character sets and transmission
charsets.  (You'll notice that I reinforce this distinction in my
own head and in this message by using the terms "character set"
and "charset" noninterchangeably.)

The charset situation is much like the canonical CRLF situation:
the fact that the canonical representation is identical to some
but not all of the available local representations guarantees
misunderstandings.

To be sure, automated selection of and translation to a registered
MIME charset is a non-trivial task, and mailers which are trying
to adopt MIME right away cannot be faulted for deferring
development of such functionality for a while.  However, just
letting users specify non-default, non-7-bit-US-ASCII, (non-MIME)
charsets is an open invitation to misunderstanding and
noninteroperability.

For now, composition agents which wish to allow users to use
extended character sets (such as Latin-1), but which elect to
relegate character set and/or charset selection to the user,
should either present the user with a menu of registered MIME
charsets from which to select (presumably it will be up to the
user to ensure that the editor or composition tool is actually
using a character set corresponding to the selected charset), or
(in the case of what it sounds like PINE is doing) at least filter
the user's open-ended charset selection against the list of
registered values (and perhaps also the X- pattern).

I've copied this message to the IETF character sets mailing list
(ietf-charsets@innosoft.com, subscription requests to
ietf-charsets-request@innosoft.com); any followup traffic should
be sent there, and *not* to the ietf-822 list.

                                        Steve Summit
                                        scs@adam.mit.edu

P.S. to pine-info@cac.washington.edu: despite my e-mail address,
I'm actually in Seattle, near UW.  I'd be glad to stop by one day
and talk with you guys in person about this stuff.






docno="lists-003-2121270"
received="Fri May 14 20:51:36 1993 EST" 
sent="Fri, 14 May 1993 20:47:02 -0700 (PDT)" 
name="Mark Crispin" 
email="mrc@Ikkoku-Kan.Panda.COM" 
subject="Re: CHARSET considerations" 
id="MS-C.737437622.2035015474.mrc@Ikkoku-Kan.Panda.COM" 
inreplyto="9305142129.AA22544@adam.MIT.EDU" 

To: ietf-charsets@INNOSOFT.COM, scs@adam.mit.edu
Cc: TROTH@ricevm1.rice.edu, pine-info@cac.washington.edu,




Steve -

 
     Thanks for your comments.  You needn't convince me; I've been involved
with the MIME charset issue for a long time (you'll note that I am one of the
authors of the ISO-2022-JP spec).  In defense of the other Pine team members,
the sin is one of omission rather than of comission; they wanted to do
something about character sets and didn't want to wire in a table of legal
values (since it might change).

     I've suggested that as a first pass the charset should only be settable
in the system config file, and that the charset always be coerced to US-ASCII
unless the text contains 8-bit characters and/or has ``funny'' control
characters such as ESC or SI/SO.  More work would definitely be needed in this
area, but you'll appreciate that there are other, higher priorities just
now...


-- Mark --







docno="lists-003-2125109"
received="Mon May 17 09:16:46 1993 EST" 
sent="Mon, 17 May 1993 09:06:59 -0700 (PDT)" 
name="Laurence Lundblade" 
email="lgl@nwnet.net" 
subject="Re: CHARSET considerations" 
id="Pine.3.07.9305170958.E23900-b100000@norman.nwnet.net" 
inreplyto="MS-C.737437622.2035015474.mrc@Ikkoku-Kan.Panda.COM" 

To: Mark Crispin <mrc@Ikkoku-Kan.Panda.COM>
Cc: ietf-charsets@INNOSOFT.COM, scs@adam.mit.edu, TROTH@ricevm1.rice.edu,




I haven't followed this discussion, but Pine does do a few things with
character sets.  For example if you set Pine to use ISO-8859-1 and send an
all ASCII message it will tag it US-ASCII (instead of ISO-8859-1).  Also,
it's smart enough to display the lower 128 for all incoming messages in
the ISO-8859-X characters sets and greek the ones it can't if the
character set of the receiving Pine is US-ASCII or ISO-8859-X.  Thought
that was what required for minimal MIME compliance.

Hope I haven't upgraded the sin from omission to comision....

LL


On Fri, 14 May 1993, Mark Crispin wrote:
> Steve -

>      Thanks for your comments.  You needn't convince me; I've been involved
> with the MIME charset issue for a long time (you'll note that I am one of the
> authors of the ISO-2022-JP spec).  In defense of the other Pine team members,
> the sin is one of omission rather than of comission; they wanted to do
> something about character sets and didn't want to wire in a table of legal
> values (since it might change).

>      I've suggested that as a first pass the charset should only be settable
> in the system config file, and that the charset always be coerced to US-ASCII
> unless the text contains 8-bit characters and/or has ``funny'' control
> characters such as ESC or SI/SO.  More work would definitely be needed in thi
s
> area, but you'll appreciate that there are other, higher priorities just
> now...

> -- Mark --









docno="lists-003-2129640"
received="Mon May 17 15:10:42 1993 EST" 
sent="Mon, 17 May 1993 15:05:50 -0700 (PDT)" 
name="Mark Crispin" 
email="mrc@Tomobiki-Cho.CAC.Washington.EDU" 
subject="Re: CHARSET considerations" 
id="MS-C.737676350.662824084.mrc@Tomobiki-Cho.CAC.Washington.EDU" 
inreplyto="Pine.3.07.9305170958.E23900-b100000@norman.nwnet.net" 

To: Laurence Lundblade <lgl@nwnet.net>
Cc: ietf-charsets@INNOSOFT.COM, scs@adam.mit.edu, TROTH@ricevm1.rice.edu,




Hi Laurence -

     Perhaps all that is needed is a list in the system .pinerc file of all
the valid charsets, and not let the user set her charset to one that is not in
the list.  So, perhaps Pine could have US-ASCII, ISO-2022-JP, and the various
ISO-8859-x sets wired in as an initial list, and the system file specify
additional valid sets?

     The concern is to avoid letting users do things like set it to things
such as ``Latin-1'' or ``ASCII'' or similar bogons...

     What do you think?

-- Mark --







docno="lists-003-2133315"
received="Tue May 18 09:14:52 1993 EST" 
sent="Tue, 18 May 1993 09:12:46 -0700 (PDT)" 
name="Laurence Lundblade" 
email="lgl@nwnet.net" 
subject="Re: CHARSET considerations" 
id="Pine.3.07.9305180944.C193-a100000@norman.nwnet.net" 
inreplyto="MS-C.737676350.662824084.mrc@Tomobiki-Cho.CAC.Washington.EDU" 

To: Mark Crispin <mrc@Tomobiki-Cho.CAC.Washington.EDU>
Cc: ietf-charsets@INNOSOFT.COM, scs@adam.mit.edu, TROTH@ricevm1.rice.edu,




Yes, I think that's exactly right.  We can probably adjust the comment in
the .pinerc for now.  In the long term the .pinerc needs a lot of good
error checking.  It just hasn't been done because limited resources.

LL


On Mon, 17 May 1993, Mark Crispin wrote:

> Hi Laurence -

>      Perhaps all that is needed is a list in the system .pinerc file of all
> the valid charsets, and not let the user set her charset to one that is not i
n
> the list.  So, perhaps Pine could have US-ASCII, ISO-2022-JP, and the various
> ISO-8859-x sets wired in as an initial list, and the system file specify
> additional valid sets?

>      The concern is to avoid letting users do things like set it to things
> such as ``Latin-1'' or ``ASCII'' or similar bogons...

>      What do you think?

> -- Mark --









docno="lists-003-2137010"
received="Tue May 18 18:52:44 1993 EST" 
sent="Tue, 18 May 1993 15:31:15 -0500 (CDT)" 
name="Rick Troth" 
email="TROTH@ricevm1.rice.edu" 
subject="Re: CHARSET considerations" 
id="01GYBXHRZVEA8Y5JAE@INNOSOFT.COM" 
inreplyto="scs@adam.mit.edu" 

To: scs@adam.mit.edu, pine-info@cac.washington.edu, ietf-charsets@INNOSOFT.COM
Cc: dan@ees1a0.engr.ccny.cuny.edu




On Fri, 14 May 93 17:29:24 -0400 Steve said:
>In <9305121752.AA00650@dimacs.rutgers.edu>, Rick wrote:
>>         Any user of Pine 3.05 (and as far as I can tell 3.07 or 2.x)
>> can shoot themself in the foot  (head if you prefer)  by setting
>> character-set = Zeldas_private_codepage.

>This is almost certainly a bad idea,   ...

        Although I used this to defend my action of having used an
illegitimate CHARSET,  I do  NOT  think that all  "user can shoot
themself in the foot"  features are bad.   Specifically,  I feel
(quite strongly)  that the user should be able to specify any old
charset and have display at least attempted at the other end.

        The long term solution is,  of course,  to map between
"character sets"  (which the use should have control over)  and
"charsets"  (which the user should leave alone).

        My only request of Pine from all this noise is that Pine
NOT LABEL  messages of  Content-Type:  text/plain.
(this may be counter to RFC 1341;  is it?)

>> Should the Pine developers remove this feature?

        No.

>                  charset is an octet-based encoding used during
>message transfer; it need bear no relation to the composing or
>viewing character sets.

        Right.   I maintain that CHARSET specification should be
omitted when feasible.   This is because there are such things as
gateways which translate the SMTP octet-stream into anything.

        There are two goals:  1)  to be able to specify new and/or
extended character sets  (and mark-ups and other extensions to plain text)
and  2)  to use  "plain text"  (in mail)  as a transport medium.
For the former,  use  Base64  encoding when needed.   For the latter,
don't label the text  "ASCII"  or any other codepoint mapping if there's
any way on earth that it might get translated by a gateway.

        I don't think this is making sense and I can't find the words.
Steve apparently has:   charset -vs- character_set.

        Plain text  is defined differently from system to system.
On UNIX,  plain text is ASCII (now ISO-8859-1) with lines delimited by
NL (actually LF).   On NT,  plain text is 16 bits wide  (so I hear).
That ain't ASCII,  though we could be the high-order 8 bits for much
of plain text processing,  and that's fine by me.   (memory is cheap)
On VM/CMS,  plain text is EBCDIC (now CodePage 1047) and records are
handled by the filesystem out-of-band of the data,  so NL (and LF and CR)
aren't sacred characters.   Now ... "mail is plain-text,  not ASCII".

>                         In the most general case, a message will
>be composed using some native character set, translated
>automatically to a MIME-registered charset, and translated at the
>other end into a native display character set.

        Right!   99 times out of 100 you don't care,  but there's that
1% of the time when you've called it  US-ASCII  and it's  NOT anymore,
although it  *is*  still legitimate  "plain text".

>           (You'll notice that I reinforce this distinction in my
>own head and in this message by using the terms "character set"
>and "charset" noninterchangeably.)

        Thanks.   That helps.

>The charset situation is much like the canonical CRLF situation:
>the fact that the canonical representation is identical to some
>but not all of the available local representations guarantees
>misunderstandings.

        Right!   And this thinking,  carried into MIME  (thus this
should be kicked BACK TO the IETF-822 list,  but I refrain),  shows up
in the use of  CHARSET=ISO-8859-1  rather than  CHARACTER_SET=Latin-1.
If you specify  "Latin-1",  then you can  (must;  I'm arguing for a
definition here,  not an explanation)  assume that  SMTP  will carry it
as ISO-8859-1,  BUT THE RECEIVING  (or sending)  HOST MIGHT NOT.
(and yes,  sad but true,  any SMTPs will strip the high bit)

>To be sure, automated selection of and translation to a registered
>MIME charset is a non-trivial task,   ...

        Yes.   Which is why I want  routers, gateways,  and all  MTAs
(mail transfer agents)  to stay out of it.   That's why I ask that
(today,  1993)  we  NOT LABEL  true plain text as  US-ASCII/ISO-8859-1.
Just leave it alone and let it default at the receiving end.

>                                    and mailers which are trying
>to adopt MIME right away cannot be faulted for deferring
>development of such functionality for a while.

        And let me reiterate that I'm not mad at the Pine developers
(nor the MIME developers;  not mad at anyone,  just trying to push a
point that I think is important and has been missed).   I'm very pleased
with Pine.   It can almost replace RiceMAIL.

        Steve,  it's obvious from your distinction between character set
(set of characters)  and  charset  (encoding of characters)  that you
understand this issue.   Thanks for making up and using those labels!

>                                       Steve Summit
>                                       scs@adam.mit.edu

--
Rick Troth <troth@rice.edu>,  Rice University,  Information Systems






docno="lists-003-2144868"
received="Tue May 18 20:20:31 1993 EST" 
sent="Wed, 19 May 1993 12:17:09 +0900 (JST)" 
name="Masataka Ohta" 
email="mohta@necom830.cc.titech.ac.jp" 
subject="Re: CHARSET considerations" 
id="9305190317.AA01493@necom830.cc.titech.ac.jp" 
inreplyto="01GYBXHRZVEA8Y5JAE@INNOSOFT.COM" 

To: TROTH@ricevm1.rice.edu (Rick Troth)
Cc: scs@adam.mit.edu, pine-info@cac.washington.edu, ietf-charsets@INNOSOFT.COM,




I don't know what pine is.

But, could you please discuss on pine specific features in pine ML
only?

                                        Masataka Ohta






docno="lists-003-2148080"
received="Wed May 19 04:11:33 1993 EST" 
sent="Wed, 19 May 1993 13:07:45 +0200" 
name="Harald Tveit Alvestrand" 
email="harald.t.alvestrand@delab.sintef.no" 
subject="Re: CHARSET considerations" 
id=""10241*/I=t/G=harald/S=alvestrand/OU=delab/O=sintef/PRMD=uninett/ADMD=/C=no/"@MHS" 
inreplyto="01GYBXHRZVEA8Y5JAE@INNOSOFT.COM" 

To: Rick Troth <TROTH@ricevm1.rice.edu>
Cc: scs <scs@adam.mit.edu>, pine-info <pine-info@cac.washington.edu>,DMD=/C=no/"@MHS>




Rick Troth writes:
>        Plain text  is defined differently from system to system.
>On UNIX,  plain text is ASCII (now ISO-8859-1) with lines delimited by
>NL (actually LF).   On NT,  plain text is 16 bits wide  (so I hear).
>That ain't ASCII,  though we could be the high-order 8 bits for much
>of plain text processing,  and that's fine by me.   (memory is cheap)
>On VM/CMS,  plain text is EBCDIC (now CodePage 1047) and records are
>handled by the filesystem out-of-band of the data,  so NL (and LF and CR)
>aren't sacred characters.   Now ... "mail is plain-text,  not ASCII".

Please, gentlemen.....read the RFC.
As long as you send mail over the Internet, claiming MIME compatibility,
the bits on the wire have to conform to the MIME convention, *NOT* to
the local convention, whatever that is.

The omission of a character set label from text/plain
MEANS THAT THE CHARACTER SET IS US ASCII.

A message that contains characters with the high bit set CANNOT BE US-ASCII,
and therefore, a text/plain message without a charset= label in it
that has such characters IS NOT LEGAL MIME.
So, when SMTP strips the 8th bit, it gets what it deserves.

This was ******NOT******* an oversight. This was deliberate design,
designed to promote interoperability. The proliferation of mail in strange
character sets without labels is *exactly* one of the things that the MIME
effort was meant to *remove*.

End of flame..............if you want a couple of tons more, read the
archives of the SMTP and RFC-822 groups. The last flareup is hidden under
"unknown-7bit" and "unknown-8bit" discussions.

                        Harald Tveit Alvestrand






docno="lists-003-2152883"
received="Wed May 19 07:16:36 1993 EST" 
sent="Wed, 19 May 1993 10:11:53 -0400 (EDT)" 
name="Dan Schlitt" 
email="dan@ees1a0.engr.ccny.cuny.edu" 
subject="Re: CHARSET considerations" 
id="Pine.3.05.9305191050.G5139-a100000@ees1a0.engr.ccny.cuny.edu" 
inreplyto="CHARSET considerations" 

To: Harald Tveit Alvestrand <harald.t.alvestrand@delab.sintef.no>
Cc: scs <scs@adam.mit.edu>, pine-info <pine-info@cac.washington.edu>,




Thank you Harald.  MIME is MIME is MIME.  And if it violates the RFC it
isn't MIME and shouldn't pretend to be.

That was the point of my original cryptic comment.  Now PLEASE edit my
address out of the headers of this.  And probably all of those other
mailinglists and limit to pine-info.  PLEASE.

Thankyou.

Dan Schlitt                           School of Engineering Computer Systems
dan@ee-mail.engr.ccny.cuny.edu        City College of New York
(212)650-6760                         New York, NY 10031








docno="lists-003-2171003"
received="Thu May 20 12:57:41 1993 EST" 
sent="Thu, 20 May 1993 21:56:14 +0200" 
name="Keld J|rn Simonsen" 
email="keld@dkuug.dk" 
subject="Re: CHARSET considerations" 
id="199305201956.AA28105@dkuug.dk" 
inreplyto="lgl@nwnet.net" 

To: Laurence Lundblade <lgl@nwnet.net>,
Cc: ietf-charsets@INNOSOFT.COM, scs@adam.mit.edu, TROTH@ricevm1.rice.edu,




Laurence Lundblade writes:

> Yes, I think that's exactly right.  We can probably adjust the comment in
> the .pinerc for now.  In the long term the .pinerc needs a lot of good
> error checking.  It just hasn't been done because limited resources.

All of the RFC 1345 character sets are registered for MIME use.
That should be able to cover most needs.

Keld






docno="lists-003-2173878"
received="Mon Jun 21 10:40:25 1993 EST" 
sent="Wed, 16 Jun 1993 15:13:52 +0200" 
name="Borka Jerman-Blazic" 
email="jerman-blazic@ijs.si" 
subject="IETF BOF" 
id="1149*/S=jerman-blazic/O=ijs/PRMD=ac/ADMD=mail/C=si/@MHS" 
inreplyto="" 

To: WG-CHAR <WG-CHAR@rare.nl>




The timing for the BOF will be announced soon. I am enclosing the
approved version of the charter.

Regards,

Borka


==================


Erik and IESG members,

I believe that the revised charter defines most of the issues and
defines them well.  I believe that the number of issues to be covered in
one BOF session to be somewhat intimidating.  However, our criteria for
this BOF should be that it helps illuminate and define the problem and
advances the understanding needed to define WGs, and I think it is more
likely to do that than anything else we are likely to come up with.  And
it is "only" a BOF and does not commit us to long-term action until we
see the outcome and Borka's minutes.

Let's go with it.
   john

    
------ revised draft charter ---------

    The Universal Character Set Standard (UCS) in Networked Services

                                      or

         Can We Think About Real Multilingual Networking?

We are in the process of building global directory systems and other
information services on the global Internet.  In many parts of the world it is
seen as essential for the success of the global services that they should be
able to recognize, store, and present textual information like personal and
organizational names, represented in the character sets used by those
concerned. This means that the Directory must be able to handle national
characters not found in the US-ASCII repetoire.  The same applies to the other
global information services on the network (e.g the data bases used in many
information servers). This is especially a problem as information services are
provided for clients on various difference hardware architectures.

Currently, for the Western European languages at least 5 different encodings
are in use on the network: ISO-7 National Variants, ISO 8859/1, ROMAN8, T.61,
and RC850. (See RFC1345 for further information on these character sets.) If we
consider the other scripts used in Europe and the other encodings the number of
different charater set codes rise to as many as 40. This is the real (and
messy) world we live in.  Changing the character sets in this world is not an
option, as current systems run applications which can support only the
character sets used by that system.

However, a universal encoding has begun to appear: UCS (ISO 10646). Initial
experience with this solution has been positive. However, there are still
many issued to be addressed in the context of ISO 10 646 and the other
character set codes, which will exist on the Internet in the future:


(1) Can we agree on some common network services/model for character set
   handling?

(2) Should a general-purpose SW tool be designed that will support both
    UCS and regional character sets?

(3) Is there a solution that will make character set convertors for diffrent
    codes "plug-and-play" (i.e. an API) without specifying the actual
    underlying implementation? Can we use UCS as a common denominator for that?

(4) Is it necessary to have a document identifying the language and the
    character sets which cater for particular language?

(5) If we need to solve these problems and UCS (ISO 10 646)  is the
    only available general option today which is maybe close to be
    sufficient,  can we  start with UCS and make minimal
    changes or specifications which will be sufficient for our needs. Can we
    discuss the missing agreement/specifiactions  required in the
    communication protocols such as:

(5.1) The order of octets in the interchange of data is left to be specified
    by the sender and the recipient in UCS.  What are the "sender" and
    "recipient"      on the Internet? Can we define a mechanism to
    identify the serialized     byte order of a data stream?

(5.2) Additional encoding mechanisms for the UCS have been proposed.  Do these
    schemes have any merit?

(5.3) Some amount of profiling may be necessary for UCS use in some countries,
      do we need to specify that globally or we can leave it to particular
      region to be solved as regional matter?

(5.4) Do we need to differentiate or specify how tagged data (i.e the field typ
e
    in a data base)and how "serialized byte order" data are treated in a
    communication protocol or will some common specification for the tag and
    the type be sufficient?


The goal of the BOF is to test the interest for the various issues.
If possible a clear set of issues could be identified then WG(s)
will be defined.






docno="lists-003-2180740"
received="Mon Jun 21 11:37:15 1993 EST" 
sent="Mon, 21 Jun 1993 14:36:41 -0400" 
name="Chris Weider" 
email="clw@merit.edu" 
subject="Re:  IETF BOF" 
id="9306211836.AA18241@merit.edu" 
inreplyto=" IETF BOF" 

To: WG-CHAR@rare.nl, ietf-charsets@INNOSOFT.COM




Borka, Hi!
  I'd like to request that the scheduling for the Character Set BOF be done
so that it does not conflict with any of the other information service working
groups (IIIR, IDS, OSI-DS, URI, for example) as I and I suspect most of the
information service people feel we *need* to attend this BOF. The interest
will be quite high, I think. Thanks for getting this together.
Chris Weider
Merit Network, Inc.
Chair, IIIR
Co-chair, IDS






docno="lists-003-2183485"
received="Tue Jun 22 18:50:42 1993 EST" 
sent="Wed, 23 Jun 1993 10:49:08 +0900" 
name="Eiiti Wada" 
email="wada@u-tokyo.ac.jp" 
subject="Re: Who knows about 10646 escape sequences?" 
id="9306230149.AA28724@sino.syslab.iias.flab.fujitsu.co.jp" 
inreplyto="Who knows about 10646 escape sequences?" 

To: ietf-charsets@INNOSOFT.COM




Harald Tveit Alvestrand <harald.t.alvestrand@delab.sintef.no>:

>Who knows if ISO 10646 has been assigned numbers and escape sequences?

Escape sequences are assigned by the Registration Authority, and the
 Registration
Authority is now with ECMA.

So, ask Mr. van den Beld of ECMA about the current situations of ISO 10646
 escape
sequences.

His e-mail address is:

jan.van-den-beld@ecma.ch


Eiiti Wada (wada@u-tokyo.ac.jp)






docno="lists-003-2205935"
received="Fri Jul  9 09:47:54 1993 EST" 
sent="Fri, 09 Jul 1993 18:25:04 +0200" 
name="Andr'e PIRARD" 
email="PIRARD@vm1.ulg.ac.be" 
subject="Thoughts about characters transmission" 
id="01H0C1LQB78Y8WWAUK@INNOSOFT.COM" 
inreplyto="Tue, 6 Jul 93 20:10 GMT" 

To: "Robert G. Moskowitz" <0003858921@mcimail.com>, ietf-charsets@INNOSOFT.COM,




I have not much time to spend on this subject, but I would have felt bad
not to express these opinions once.

I have learned with much interest that people envision solutions for
international characters data exchange with a wider point of view than
usually heard in the networking sphere.
I have been spending quite a time of my life with such problems.
I thought I could contribute with a small text explaining the way
I have finally come to think of the problem.
Nothing totally new, probably, but a different shed of light, maybe.
The text may sound theoretical at first. It is just terse. The ideas are
based on experience. They have been put to use in the field of 8-bit
characters. I participated to the design of Kermit multinational 8-bit
characters support and the TCP/IP network I work for is well on the way
towards the the same theory that every character on the communication
line is ISO 8859-1. Any exception to this, like translating EBCDIC directly
to PC code on one machine, is considered harmful to our internetworking,
even if convenient.
Every piece working towards a common well defined goal finally pays more
when all parts start to clutch than wandering for immediate interest.
And I hope that saying that my language is French will make the ideas
in a difficult to write text even more convincing, despite being short.

Networking has had for long the problem of a common representation of
computer-specific data (numbers, bit strings...) on the wire (rather, on the
connection), because different computers had different conventions for them.
To solve this problem, rules like XDR (external data representation) have
been devised, and, because it was so important, the rules have been adopted.

Character data caused little problem because ASCII was assumed, full stop.
There was hardly an expressed rule. It was tacit computer culture.

Now that networking reaches its real dimension of an international mesh,
the problem of national languages usage becomes very real, at least locally,
but more and more internationally. Any computer has to exchange more
than ASCII.
Many generous people have spent much time to have system Si with character
code Ci translate data for system Sj with code Cj under protocol Pk.
With much respect for their work, this is not (no longer) the way to do it.
Supposing that N character codes exist on different systems, the effort
amounts to M*N**2 to reach a complete solution. Let us count the different
character codes (IBM have their share) and protocols, the bill is amazing!

The _most_important_point_ is that a single common representation code
be defined _for_the_line_ (suiting the purpose, namely to cover all national
languages in one single way) and that people be instructed that every bit
of text should travel in that code on the wire, whatever_the_protocol_is.
(Meaning that common tools be available to translate present local code).
It is best for a computer to use the code of interchange internally,
but all computers in the world cannot be modified overnight.
What computer Si has to do to abide by the external representation is
the sole matter of computer Si: to appear to others as if it were using
it internally. On any protocol the same way, even during dialog with
computer Ti using the same code ("One need not know which kind of system
one is sending mail to"). No tagging of the data nor any need to know
any character code other than one's own and the interchange code.
The M*N**2 order of magnitude reduces to N.
This is the extended "ASCII culture" of some future, no doubt.
It is a very important goal just now.
It is a fact that the choice of a character code has long lasting effects,
because of the building software base. The impact of today's decisions
is amplified by time. The sooner the better. The better the sooner.

More theoretically said this time, this local-code to exchange-code
translation works much a la OSI layer (or "a` la", if you don't mind :-)
Data is encoded towards a lower layer, exchanged, and decoded back to
same level, but possibly to a different local code.
It probably belongs between level 6 and 7, as it could prove that the
application layer provides all the textual data. But that's not sure,
like for XDR which can be used from many levels to convert CPU data
to line format.
Should we merge "presentation" and "representation" layers, split level 6
like level 2 or not assign it to any level, I'll leave the discussion to
the theoricians.

What seems clear in my mind is that the translation is not in several
final protocols, but a protocol by itself -- like XDR -- that other
protocols refer to.
And this may be the most important point.
It is a pity to see each protocol tackle the problem its own way.

Note that the "level 6 or so" concept applied to text extends slightly beyond
the representation of characters (and binary data) towards file structure.
Think of the line separator problem of NFS for the basic case of text files.
While file structure (including file name etc...) is clearly a specialized
problem (as opposed to communication of streams of text), the impact on
systems and protocols design is just as high.

Clearly, it will take much time to stand in ASCII's shoes.
But doing otherwise would take even longer to erase and redo.
One cannot increase complication eternally.

Some intermediate compromises will have to be used like additional
encoding on pathes some insist to not even try to convert to 8-bit,
asking the rest of the networks to convert to 7-bit instead and to
rewrite all their programs to use a complicated method for sending
plain text when the sole problem is that it contains 8-bit data.

The important thing is that the new layer be known and used.
It's the interest of both the software writer and buyer.
It will get void when a system will use the interchange code for itself.

Now that the international character code ISO 10646 is out, isn't it time
for communication systems to be able to not only exchange pictures and sound
but also plain text?  Will ISO 10646 be used by OSI 6?

Thanks for your interest.
I go away for holidays today. If you write anything you want me to read,
please make a personal reply and allow for two weeks before I can read it.
I have picked addresses from a BOF announcement and sent to mailing lists
I am not on. Feel free to forward the text to anyone intersted.

Andr'e PIRARD        SEGI, Univ. de Li`ege      | 139.165.0.0 IP (ULg)
B26 - Sart Tilman    B-4000 Li`ege 1 (Belgium)  | Architecture & Adm.
pirard@vm1.ulg.ac.be aka PIRARD@BLIULG11.BITNET   +32 (41) 564932

What is an FAQ is a frequently asked question.






docno="lists-034-10062451"
name="Tom Stephens"
email="tomste@microsoft.com"
sent="Fri, 19 Apr 1996 19:32:07 -0700"
subject="RE: Merged Transport Layer Protocol Development"
To: "'ietf-tls@w3.org'" <ietf-tls@w3.org>
Cc: "'tls-draft@w3.org'" <tls-draft@w3.org>



     
   
Tls-draft was created specifically as a forum for the discussion of the
Microsoft STLP strawman document.  The reason for this is that the STLP
strawman document is not an official IETF document.  Win Treese,
Microsoft and Netscape did not want this document to be confused in any
way with the actual spec that is being developed by the working group.

However, since the consensus of the emails is to discuss the STLP
strawman document on ietf-tls, then Microsoft does not object.  To
facilitate the discussion, you can find the STLP strawman document at:

http://pct.microsoft.com/stlp.


Tom Stephens

>----------
>From:  Eric Murray[SMTP:ericm@lne.com]
>Sent:  Friday, April 19, 1996 3:18 PM
>To:    Tom Stephens
>Cc:    ietf-tls@w3.org
>Subject:       Re: Merged Transport Layer Protocol Development

>Tom Stephens writes:
>>
>> David made some excellent points regarding STLP.  These points and
>> others will be discussed in some detail on tls-draft@w3.org - as that is
>> the alias for discussion of the STLP strawman document.  If you are not
>> a member of that alias, I would strongly encourage you to join and
>> >participate in the discussion.  To join the tls-draft alias, send an
>> >mail to tls-draft-request@w3.org with the word "subscribe" in the
>> subject line.

>Perhaps I don't understand IETF procedure, but I am puzzled as to why
>there is now a second mailing list.  It's not like the original
>TLS list is getting too much traffic.

>In fact, it's not getting enough traffic... for one, I can't find any
>reference to any mail that included the URL for the STLP "strawman".

>Where is it?



>--
>Eric Murray  ericm@lne.com  ericm@motorcycle.com
>http://www.lne.com/ericm
>PGP keyid:E03F65E5 fingerprint:50 B0 A2 4C 7D 86 FC 03  92 E8 AC E6 7E
>27 29 AF






docno="lists-034-10066763"
name="Holger Reif"
email="Holger.Reif@prakinf.tu-ilmenau.de "
sent="Mon, 22 Apr 96 08:02:05 +0200"
subject="RE: Merged Transport Layer Protocol Development"
To: tomste@microsoft.com
Cc: tls-draft@w3.org



     
   

> strawman document is not an official IETF document.  Win Treese,
> Microsoft and Netscape did not want this document to be confused in any
> way with the actual spec that is being developed by the working group.

I'm yet to read the document in detail but this sounds like we are going to
have a IETF-Standard and an a separate NS/MS standard ???

This is not a good thing.


read you later  -  Holger Reif
----------------------------------------  Signaturprojekt Deutsche Einheit
TU Ilmenau - Informatik - Telematik                      (Verdamp lang her)
Holger.Reif@PrakInf.TU-Ilmenau.DE         Alt wie ein Baum werden, um ueber
http://Remus.PrakInf.TU-Ilmenau.DE/Reif/  alle 7 Bruecken gehen zu koennen
     





docno="lists-034-10069772"
name="Tom Stephens"
email="tomste@microsoft.com"
sent="Sun, 21 Apr 1996 23:08:33 -0700"
subject="RE: Merged Transport Layer Protocol Development"
To: "'Holger.Reif@PrakInf.TU-Ilmenau.DE'"<Holger.Reif@prakinf.tu-ilmenau.de>
    Cc: "'tls-draft@w3.org'" <tls-draft@w3.org>



     
   
No, there will not be two standards.  Microsoft and Netscape are working
with the IETF to create one IETF standard which both companies can
support.

>----------
>From:
>       Holger.Reif@PrakInf.TU-Ilmenau.DE[SMTP:Holger.Reif@PrakInf.TU-Ilmenau.D
>E]
>Sent:  Sunday, April 21, 1996 11:02 PM
>To:    Tom Stephens
>Cc:    tls-draft@w3.org
>Subject:       RE: Merged Transport Layer Protocol Development


>> strawman document is not an official IETF document.  Win Treese,
>> Microsoft and Netscape did not want this document to be confused in any
>> way with the actual spec that is being developed by the working group.

>I'm yet to read the document in detail but this sounds like we are
>going to
>have a IETF-Standard and an a separate NS/MS standard ???

>This is not a good thing.


>read you later  -  Holger Reif
>----------------------------------------  Signaturprojekt Deutsche
>Einheit
>TU Ilmenau - Informatik - Telematik                      (Verdamp lang
>her)
>Holger.Reif@PrakInf.TU-Ilmenau.DE         Alt wie ein Baum werden, um
>ueber
>http://Remus.PrakInf.TU-Ilmenau.DE/Reif/  alle 7 Bruecken gehen zu
>koennen






docno="lists-034-10073419"
name="Jim Sanders"
email="sanders_james@tandem.com "
sent="Mon, 22 Apr 1996 07:53:16 -0700"
subject="Re: Status (if any) of STLP?"
To: tomste@microsoft.com
Cc: ietf-tls@w3.org, tls-draft@w3.org



     
   
On Friday 4/19, at 8:24 PM, Tom Stephens wrote:

>Tls-draft was created specifically as a forum for the discussion of the
>Microsoft STLP strawman document.  The reason for this is that the STLP
>strawman document is not an official IETF document.  Win Treese,
>Microsoft and Netscape did not want this document to be confused in any
>way with the actual spec that is being developed by the working group.

>However, since the consensus of the emails is to discuss the STLP
>strawman document on ietf-tls, then Microsoft does not object.  To
>facilitate the discussion, you can find the STLP strawman document at:

>http://pct.microsoft.com/stlp.
>>
>Tom Stephens
>---------------------------------
Tom, could you or Win Treese tell us exactly what is going on?  I was there
in LA on March 6 evening meeting, and this (recent unilateral release by
Microsoft of a document of unknown status to an unknown enitity) does not
feel like the intentions I heard expressed at that time.  If Microsoft
released a unilateral draft, to whom did you release it?  If it was to the
IETF, but is "not an official IETF document," what status does it have?
Most of all, if the working group is still working on an "actual spec,"
what purpose is served by this unilateral STLP document?

These (apparently sub rosa) machinations do not inspire confidence in the
integrity of the original commitments (surprising as they were) to work out
a unified protocol.  The rest of the industry needs to have confidence in
this process.

--Jim Sanders--
"Speaking for myself, not necessarily for my employer."

<< Jim Sanders, Staff Scientist, Transaction Security    >>
<< Network Applications Services, Tandem Computers       >>
<< Voice: 408-285-492; E-mail: sanders_james@tandem.com  ))






docno="lists-034-10077455"
name="Tom Stephens"
email="tomste@microsoft.com"
sent="Mon, 22 Apr 1996 08:54:53 -0700"
subject="RE: Status (if any) of STLP?"
To: "'sanders_james@tandem.com'" <sanders_james@tandem.com>
Cc: "'ietf-tls@w3.org'" <ietf-tls@w3.org>, "'tls-draft@w3.org'"<tls-draft@w3.org>



     
   
Jim,

Win Treese and representatives from Microsoft and Netscape met a couple
of weeks ago to begin hammering out some of the components for the
foundation of a spec.  At that meeting, Microsoft precented our STLP
strawman document.  That document was an experiment by Microsoft to
determine how well SSL and PCT could be merged into one protocol - using
SSL as a base and adding PCT deltas.  Our goal was to deal with the
differences Microsoft and Netscape quickly so that the normal IETF
process would move forward without any detractions from either Microsoft
or Netscape.

Tom

>----------
>From:  sanders_james@tandem.com[SMTP:sanders_james@tandem.com]
>Sent:  Monday, April 22, 1996 7:53 AM
>To:    Tom Stephens
>Cc:    ietf-tls@w3.org; tls-draft@w3.org
>Subject:       Re: Status (if  any) of STLP?

>On Friday 4/19, at 8:24 PM, Tom Stephens wrote:

>>Tls-draft was created specifically as a forum for the discussion of the
>>Microsoft STLP strawman document.  The reason for this is that the STLP
>>strawman document is not an official IETF document.  Win Treese,
>>Microsoft and Netscape did not want this document to be confused in any
>>way with the actual spec that is being developed by the working group.
>>
>>However, since the consensus of the emails is to discuss the STLP
>>strawman document on ietf-tls, then Microsoft does not object.  To
>>facilitate the discussion, you can find the STLP strawman document at:
>>
>>http://pct.microsoft.com/stlp.
>>>
>>Tom Stephens
>>---------------------------------
>Tom, could you or Win Treese tell us exactly what is going on?  I was
>there
>in LA on March 6 evening meeting, and this (recent unilateral release
>by
>Microsoft of a document of unknown status to an unknown enitity) does
>not
>feel like the intentions I heard expressed at that time.  If Microsoft
>released a unilateral draft, to whom did you release it?  If it was to
>the
>IETF, but is "not an official IETF document," what status does it have?
>Most of all, if the working group is still working on an "actual spec,"
>what purpose is served by this unilateral STLP document?

>These (apparently sub rosa) machinations do not inspire confidence in
>the
>integrity of the original commitments (surprising as they were) to work
>out
>a unified protocol.  The rest of the industry needs to have confidence
>in
>this process.

>--Jim Sanders--
>"Speaking for myself, not necessarily for my employer."

><< Jim Sanders, Staff Scientist, Transaction Security    >>
><< Network Applications Services, Tandem Computers       >>
><< Voice: 408-285-492; E-mail: sanders_james@tandem.com  ))





docno="lists-034-10082707"
name="Tom Stephens"
email="tomste@microsoft.com"
sent="Mon, 22 Apr 1996 12:10:54 -0700"
subject="RE: Status (if any) of STLP?"
To: "'sanders_james@tandem.com'" <sanders_james@tandem.com>
Cc: "'ietf-tls@w3.org'" <ietf-tls@w3.org>, "'tls-draft@w3.org'"<tls-draft@w3.org>



     
   
Jim,

As you pointed out, there has been some confusion over this issue.  It
was unfortunate that the strawman document was labeled as a draft in the
press and by others.  That was never our intention.  For that confusion,
we apologize.

Tom

>----------
>From:  sanders_james@tandem.com[SMTP:sanders_james@tandem.com]
>Sent:  Monday, April 22, 1996 10:39 AM
>To:    Tom Stephens
>Cc:    ietf-tls@w3.org; tls-draft@w3.org
>Subject:       RE: Status (if  any) of STLP?

>>Jim,
>>
>>Win Treese and representatives from Microsoft and Netscape met a couple
>>of weeks ago to begin hammering out some of the components for the
>>foundation of a spec.  At that meeting, Microsoft precented our STLP
>>strawman document.  That document was an experiment by Microsoft to
>>determine how well SSL and PCT could be merged into one protocol - using
>>SSL as a base and adding PCT deltas.  Our goal was to deal with the
>>differences Microsoft and Netscape quickly so that the normal IETF
>>process would move forward without any detractions from either Microsoft
>>or Netscape.
>>
>>Tom
>-----------------------------
>Thanks Tom,

>I have no dispute with the events you describe, but process integrity
>would
>have been better served if you or Win had described this intent up
>front,
>and answered the queries by other folks who, like me, could not figure
>out
>what was going on.  This was especialy true in light of the press
>reports of
>"Draft submitted to IETF."  I believe that what you are saying is that
>no draft
>was "submitted," but rather "made available for review," albeit with
>rather late
>instructions as to location and ownership.

>All the above reflects my personal belief that this particular
>BOF-cum-WG
>should stretch to maintain the status of "Caesar's wife;" and also
>reflects
>my concern at the questions being raised by others last week.

>Thanks again for your prompt response.
>--Jim--

><< Jim Sanders, Staff Scientist - Transaction Security            >>
><< Network Application Services, Tandem Computers             >>
><< Voice: 408-285-4192; E-mail: sanders_james@tandem.com >>






docno="lists-046-11485666"
name="Raman T. V."
email="raman@mv.us.adobe.com "
sent="Mon, 18 Mar 1996 09:23:53 -0800"
subject="A short comment:"
To: w3c-math-erb@w3.org
Cc: raman@mv.us.adobe.com



     
   
I'll mail this out while it's fresh in my head:

The  document
http://www.w3.org/pub/WWW/MarkUp/Math/Group/Wolfram/general.html
contains the following statement
which I completely disagree with (at least as stated here).


Rendering into other media (such as speech) is expected to communicate,
essentially, a "mental picture" of the 2-dimensional form of an
expression. (Rationale: since almost all mathematics is conventionally
expressed in 2-dimensional graphical form, most notations in that medium have
no standard version in other media.)

Reason I disagree:

Renderings in speech need to convey more than a "2D picture" of the
expression.  Check out (listen to ) some of the demos on my AsTeR WWW site--
they make the point about spoken renderings being *independent* of the visual
2D layout far better than I am capable of in a plain-text email message.

Given that the contentious statement appears in our "rationale"  document, I
thought it sufficiently importatn to have clarified.

--Raman

 Thanks,
 --Raman

--



Best Regards,

--raman

      Adobe Systems                 Tel: 1 (415) 962 3945   (B-1 115)
      Advanced Technology Group     Fax: 1 (415) 962 6063
      1585 Charleston Road          Email: raman@adobe.com
      Mountain View, CA 94039 -7900  raman@cs.cornell.edu
      http://www-atg/People/Raman.html (Internal To Adobe)
      http://www.cs.cornell.edu/Info/People/raman/raman.html  (Cornell)

Disclaimer: The opinions expressed are my own and in no way should be taken
            as representative of my employer, Adobe Systems Inc.





docno="lists-046-11489622"
name="Dave Raggett"
email="dsr@w3.org"
sent="Fri, 22 Mar 1996 18:19:06 -0500"
subject="Minutes for 18th March"
To: w3c-math-erb@w3.org



     
   
Meeting Notes of Math-ERB Teleconference:
Thursday 18th March '96

Present:

      Bruce Smith, Wolfram
      Neil Soiffer, Wolfram
      T.V. Raman, Adobe
      Dave Raggett, W3C

Meeting time/frequency

Dave has been unable to find any time that all of us can make. The new time
will be every Monday at 1300 EST until further notice. Dave will attempt to
keep Nico in the loop via email on the mailing list and separate phone calls.


Adding further People to the Math-ERB

Stu Weibel of OCLC sends his regrets that they are too busy to accept the
invitation at this time. Elsevier have contacted the AMS. Ralph Youngen,
Associate Director, Electronic Product Development for AMS has accepted the
invitation to join the group, along with a couple of his colleagues.

The need for full SGML?

We discussed whether it was necessary to use SGML for the math notation.
Basically, we have a preference for an extensible operator precedence
notation. This can be included in HTML documents and handled correctly by
SGML processing applications via the NOTATION mechanism.

When using operator precedence, there is a need to constrain the context in
which given operators can be used. Niel said this wasn't as simple as at
first it might appear. Dave will work on a formal mechanism for this.

It is also unclear as to when macro processing is applied. Further discussion
on this is needed. It should be practical for parsers to deal with missing
arguments sensibly. This in general depends on the context.

Raman voiced a concern on Bruce's comment on 2D pictures. We agreed however,
that a fixed set of "layout" idioms are sufficient for HTML-math. Raman
promised to propose some new wording. He also gave us a URL for his test
suite, which I have added to the math-erb home page.

We ended by discussing some of the parsing issues for mismatched brackets and
number literals. It seems clear that bracket matching can't in general be
required. Authors should be able to control the settings for this and for
literals.

Dave has posted a dump of his understanding as a result of this conference
call. See: current thoughts.

Dave Raggett, 22nd March.

-- Dave Raggett <dsr@w3.org> tel: +1 (617) 258 5741 fax: +1 (617) 258 5999
   World Wide Web Consortium, 545 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA 02139
   url = http://www.w3.org/People/Raggett





docno="lists-046-11493928"
name="Nico Poppelier"
email="nico@valacar.elsevier.nl"
sent="Thu, 4 Apr 1996 09:08:31 +0200 (MET DST)"
inreplyto="199604032337.PAA00531@labrador.mv.us.adobe.com"
subject="Re: Agenda for Monday April 1st"
To: raman@labrador.mv.us.adobe.com (Raman T. V.)
Cc: w3c-math-erb@w3.org



     
   
I've read the minutes of the last few meetings and Dave's
proposal. Here are some comments.

1. If you want to have a model for large or extendible characters,
I would like to suggest that we consider (again) the model of TeX
and the Computer Modern fonts. Barbara Beeton of the AMS has also
done interesting work on math font layout in some ISO workgroup.

2. Automatic numbering, or better: automatic generation of numbers
(labels) from keys used in symbolic referencing, a la \label/\ref
in LaTeX or ID/IDREF in SGML, is fraught with difficulties.
Between =-=-=-= lines I'll include a piece I wrote about that in
relation to the Elsevier Science DTD's.

=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
The problem of symbolic referencing has never been one of the DTDs,
but one of finding an algorithm for deriving (printed) numbers/labels
from symbolic labels in the SGML source document.


Earlier summary of the problem
------------------------------
A generic mechanism for counters, including some rules for
presentation of counters, is as follows.

- Every type of numbered object, table, figure, equation,
  reference, has its own counter.
- All top-level counters start at the value 0 (zero) at the
  beginning of the document.
- If nesting is possible, every nesting level has its own counter.
- Counters of levels below top-level start at the value 0 (zero) at the
  start tag of the next higher (parent) level.
- From the values of the counter(s) a label is calculated. This
  label is e.g. printed in the article as it appears in a journal
  issue. The relation between labels and counters is
  application-dependent.
  Example: |<sec id="99">| could be printed as ``3.2.1''.
- The values of the |id| attributes are unique within the
  document instance.
- The |id| attribute is not identical to the counter value.
- If the |id| attribute is missing, the counter is not
  incremented, and the element is not numbered. This allows for e.g.
  un-numbered equations. This means that tables and figures always have
  an |id| attribute even when they are not referenced. (Or are
  there also cases where tables and figures are not numbered?)

There are (at least) the following exceptions to the algorithm
described above:

1. The contents of a figure form one (physical) entity, but
inspection of the contents show that there are logical sub-figures
(hidden) inside the figure. Example: the contents of figure~2 contains
markers `a', `b' and `c', which indicate logical sub-figures 2a, 2b and
2c.

2. Normal equation numbering (1, 2, 3, ...) is interrupted by an
equation number that is `derived from' an earlier one. Example: (1),
(2), (3), (1'), (4), (5), ...

3. Numbering in lists, or sub-numbering in equations, is
interrupted. Example: a numbered list with items 1, 2, 3, is followed
by a paragraph of text (the || is on the same level as the
|<l>|), and then the list continues 4, 5, 6. The intention of the
author appears to be {\em one\/} list, but this list is
interrupted. A similar example can be found in equation sub-numbering:
equations (4a) and (4b) are followed by a paragraph of text, followed
by equations (4c) and (4d).

Below I will discuss each case separately.

Hidden sub-figures
------------------

When a figure (as far as we know, hidden sub-components occur only
with figures.) that exists as one physical entity consists of logical
sub-entities, the only solution lies in adding this information, which
lies *outside* the document, to the document. One possibility for this
is to give the |<fig>| start tag a new attribute that specifies the
labels of the individual components. This enables generation of the
labels of the sub-figures.

First an example of a regular case:

  <fig id=fig4>
  <fig id=fig4a><figlnk file="fig4a"></fig>
  <fig id=fig4b><figlnk file="fig4b"></fig>
  </fig>

Here the outer figure and the two nested figures each have their own
unique key for referencing (fig4, fig4a, fig4b), and we have the
following (id, label) pairs:

  (fig4, 4)  (fig4a, (4 1))  (fig4b, (4 2))

where the counter strings (4 1) and (4 2) are represented as `4a' and `4b'
(but this presentation is application-dependent of course).

Second an example of hidden sub-figures:

  <fig id=fig4>
  <figlnk file="fig4">
  </fig>

the picture in |fig4| contains two labels, `a' and `b', that identify
sub-figures. Both the figure as a whole and the individual sub-figures
are referenced. If we add an attribute to the start tag we can achieve
this: |<fig id=fig4 comp="a b"^gt;|. The keys `fig4a' and `fig4b' are
implied (automatically generated); these implied keys act as aliases
for `fig4', since they refer to the same physical object.
Unfortunately, the attribute |comp="a b"| also suggests a
presentation. Now we have the following (id, label) pairs:

  (fig4, 4)  (fig4a, (4 1))  (fig4b, (4 2))

where |4|, |(4 1)| and |(4 2)| refer to the same object
(physical figure) in the document instance.

Derived equation numbers
------------------------
We illustrate this case with an example. Suppose an article contains
the following sequence of equations: (1), (2), (3), (1'), (4), (5),
... In that case we have the following (id, label) pairs for the first
three equations:

  (eq1, 1)  (eq2, 2)  (eq3, 3)

The next equation should have an (id, label) pair like this:

  (eq$1, label(eq1)')

where |eq$1| is the unique |id| assigned to equation~(1'), and
|label(eq1)| stands for the label of the equation with id=eq1.

And the next equation, (4), should have an (id, label) pair like this:

  (eq4, 4)

The question is whether appending material to an existing label is the
only form of derivation, or whether other forms of derivation exist.

Interrupted sequences
---------------------
This case occurs with list items within a numbered list, or with
numbered sub-equations. (Lists look like a special case of nesting:
numbering of list items normally starts with 1, but every list item
must have an \verb|id| that is unique within the document. This could
be achieved if we also numbered the parent element \verb|<l^gt;|.)

Suppose we have

  <l>
  <li id="liA">a footnote is ...
  <li id="liB">footnotes should be ...
  </l>
  A paragraph of text comes between the two numbered lists.
  <l>
  <li id="liC">a figure is ...
  <li id="liD">a table is ...
  </l>

and the author has numbered the list items as 1, 2, 3, 4. We agreed
earlier that one of the guiding principles is to follow the author
unless there are errors in the manuscript.
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

3. "HTML-Math is intended to allow ... as well as rendering to
graphical bitmapped displays." What about rendering to paper??

4. "There are hundreds of symbols in use in mathematics." For those
of you who think this is covered by Unicode, Computer Modern fonts and
the AMS fonts (although the latter *are* very useful), should study
pages 47-50 of the following document

    ftp://ftp.elsevier.nl/pub/sgml/artdoc.ps.gz

This is the documentation of our article DTD, and it contains
tables with *all* symbols and characters we use in typesetting our
products. There is redundancy in it, I know. But more important is
that to cover this set 100% you need more than the font sets I
mentioned earlier. Elsevier Science is in discussion with several
societies about the possibility of completing a font set that
covers all this, and perhaps more, and make it freely available.
This will also solve legal problems with embedding fonts or parts
of fonts in PDF files.

5. Superiors/inferiors: I think we should add something about
vertical position of inferiors in mathematics and chemistry (these
differ, as some of you may know).

6. In the list of layout idioms I believe there is at least
one missing, namely an arrow that adjusts its width to the text
appearing above or below it. This is used in chemical formulas, and
is different from an arrow or brace AS ORNAMENT, that adjusts its width
to the text underneath it. Examples of both:

    \widebrace{a b c ... x y z} (the brace is the ornament)

           catalyst
      A  -----------> B         (the text above the arrow is the ornament)

7. In example 2 a lot of reserved words occur: from, to, of. How
do you get these words as normal words in the text (in roman)?

8. What about coding fractions: are we going to follow LaTeX and most
SGML DTD's and use something like (fraction (numerator ...)
(denominator ...)) or are we copying the horrible TeX construct
(... over ...)? I've been asked by people on the LaTeX3 development
team to express a strong preference for the former, and a strong
dislike for \over!

That's it. I'll try to monitor the corner designated to our group
on www.w3.org, although the password Dave gave me doesn't work!  :-)

If Dave can let me know several days in advance when a telephone
conference occurs (on Monday evenings) I can try to attend. But
there will be Mondays on which I am not at home from 7 pm to midnight
(that's 12 noon to 5 pm EST, since we're in daylight saving time
as of last weekend).

Regards,

Nico

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dr. Nico A.F.M. Poppelier
Elsevier Science, APD, ITD               Email: n.poppelier@elsevier.nl.
Molenwerf 1, 1014 AG Amsterdam           Phone: +31-20-4853482.
The Netherlands                          Fax:   +31-20-4853706.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  The truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.
                                             And maybe some compromises.
     





docno="lists-046-11506817"
name="Ron Whitney"
email="RFW@math.ams.org"
sent="Thu, 11 Apr 1996 08:46:25 -0400 (EDT)"
* Mail-System-Version:
subject="small questions regarding integrals"
To: w3c-math-erb@w3.org



In composing a longer piece about concerns here, I have a couple of
smallish, focused questions.  I'll ask them in the context of integrals.

Dave proposes something on the order of

  integral from ... to ... of ... \d x

for an "ordinary" integral.

1. How will we handle the variants on this theme such as multiple
integrals (to be rendered with multiple integral signs), path
integrals, etc. ?

2. Is there a specific reason we don't want to use the TeX-like
notation: \int_{...}^{...} ... ?  (because the _ and ^ operators
become "too" overloaded?)



-Ron
     




docno="lists-046-12119260"
name="T. V. Raman"
email="raman@adobe.com"
sent="Tue, 4 Jun 1996 08:19:04 -0700"
inreplyto="199606040606.AA03032@drizzle.wri.com"
id="199606041519.IAA15437@labrador.mv.us.adobe.com"
* X-Fax: 1(415) 962-6063
* X-Phone: 1 (415) 962-3945
subject="Re: Comments on parsing steps:"
To: Neil Soiffer <soiffer@wri.com>
Cc: raman@mv.us.adobe.com, w3c-math-erb@w3.org


     
   
Hi Neill,

I did not see anything wrong in Bruce's description --all I was trying to do
was to fill in the gaps in the description as I perceived --

--
Best Regards,
--raman

      Adobe Systems                 Tel: 1 (415) 962 3945   (B-1 115)
      Advanced Technology Group     Fax: 1 (415) 962 6063
      (E 1-160) 1585 Charleston Road       Email: raman@adobe.com
      Mountain View, CA 94039 -7900  raman@cs.cornell.edu
      http://www-atg/People/Raman.html (Internal To Adobe)
      http://www.cs.cornell.edu/Info/People/raman/raman.html  (Cornell)
Disclaimer: The opinions expressed are my own and in no way should be taken
            as representative of my employer, Adobe Systems Inc.




docno="lists-046-12122969"
name="Dave Raggett"
email="dsr@w3.org"
sent="Tue, 04 Jun 1996 11:58:23 -0400"
id="199606041558.AA160953903@w3.org"
subject="Minutes June 3rd"
To: w3c-math-erb@w3.org



     
   

Present:

Dave Raggett
Patrick Ion
Robert Miner
T. V. Raman   (left early)
Ralph Youngen
Ron Whitney
Bruce Smith
Neil Soiffer

The meeting discussed Bruce's new proposal, see:

        http://www.w3.org/pub/WWW/MarkUp/Math/WG/Smith-960531.html

Dave asked about lexical details. For instance if one uses an SGML
named character entity how does the tokenizer know whether the
character is allowed as part of an identifier? Bruce replied that
there needs to be a large dictionary that specifies properties such
as:

    o   Whether the character is allowed as the first or subsequent
        characters in an identifier.

    o   If it is an operator, its types (prefix/infix/postfix) and the
        associated left and right precedences.

    o   Whether it can be used to embellish other operators.

Action: Bruce to add a detailed schema for the character dictionary.

Dave also suggested that as a matter of principle any tag names should
have meaningful names. Bruce said he wanted to avoid potential naming
conflicts with other groups wishing to define new HTML tags. Dave said
that this wasn't a big problem, given W3C's role in defining HTML.

Action: Dave to post a proposal for the HTML-math tag names.

Robert added that to allow him to implement the proposal he would need
more detail on the various layout schema. Bruce will work on this.

Dave queried the flat associativity with same precedences for `+' and `-'.
Neil explained that this makes it much easier to write the line breaking
algorithm.

Macro definitions. Bruce will add an SGML element to represent these.
This raises the issue of scoping and how a plug-in could exploit the
HTML parse tree. In the short term, this will remain a problem.

We discussed the representation for arrays. Dave explained that the
HTML 3.0 proposal borrowed from LaTeX and TeX. See:

    http://www.w3.org/pub/WWW/MarkUp/html3/arrays.html

It supports:

    o   setting position of array relative to
        preceding and followng expressions

    o   column specification for cell alignment

    o   cells spanning multiple rows or columns

    o   "+", "-" or "=" characters as column separators

    o   separation of first row/column as labels

    o   setting left and right bracket symbols

    o   filling a cell spanning several columns with dots

The features needed for math make it inappropriate to use the HTML
table tags.

We discussed what HTML tags might be appropriate within HTML-math.
The current inability to call the browser to handle such nested tags
suggests we need to take a cautious approach. A the minimum we probably
need:

    o   plain text

    o   simple kinds of emphasis (bold/italic)

    o   control over font size

    o   hypertext links

    o   line numbering

We could further allow this text to include math elements so that we get
math including text including math etc. This doesn't seem to be needed
in practice though.

The current plug-in api's are inadequate. For instance one would like to
know the current font family, size and baseline position, as well as the
background color or texture tile and pattern origin. One would like to
set the visible size according to the expression being displayed, and
to be sent a message when relevant parameters are changed. How can CSS
based style sheets influence the style properties used within plugins?
Dave would like the math-erb to put pressure on browser vendors to fix
these problems.

Action: Neil to investigate Netscape Navigator 3.0 plug-in SDK to see
what improvements have been made to the api.

One short term solution would be to add parameters to the math tags
to specify the context in which the elements occur, e.g. <h1>, or .
The control panel for the html-math plug-in would allow the user to
set the font size to be used in these contexts.

We discussed ideas for folding and unfolding expressions. One idea is
to allow the author to name a subexpression and then to use that name
in place of further occurrences of that subexpression. When folded the
given name would be shown in place of the subexpression itself. The
scope for such definitions shouldn't be resticted to a single math
element. This could be supported via SGML tags and attributes.

Bruce talked through the case where names for subexpressions are generated
automatically at browse-time. This doesn't require any special markup,
although the ability to give the same name to common subexpressions will
depend on the ability to recognize that these subexpressions are in fact
semantically identical. In a previous discussion Raman pointed out that
it would be helpful if the user is allowed to set the name of subexpressions
as this makes it easier to remember (important for speech-base browsers).

-- Dave Raggett <dsr@w3.org> tel: +1 (617) 258 5741 fax: +1 (617) 258 5999
   World Wide Web Consortium, 545 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA 02139
   url = http://www.w3.org/People/Raggett




docno="lists-046-12130258"
name="Neil Soiffer"
email="soiffer@wri.com"
sent="Mon, 3 Jun 1996 23:06:04 -0700"
id="199606040606.AA03032@drizzle.wri.com"
subject="Re: Comments on parsing steps:"
To: raman@adobe.com
Cc: w3c-math-erb@w3.org


     
   
>>From first reading, it appears that the step of "parsing embellishments"
>e.g. superscripts, accents etc needs to happen *before* the operator
>precedence parsing step.

>Also, this will allow us to handle complex expressions appearing as
>embellishments to other complex expressions correctly.

Mathematica's parsing, which works in a manner similar to what Bruce describes,
has no problem handling complex embellishments as in your example.
Perhaps I am too familar with the algorithm and that I filled in pieces
missing in Bruce's description, but I didn't see anything wrong with his
description.  Do you have a (simple) example in mind where it fails?

        Neil




docno="lists-046-12133410"
name="T. V. Raman"
email="raman@adobe.com"
sent="Tue, 4 Jun 1996 10:00:57 -0700"
inreplyto="199606041558.AA160953903@w3.org"
id="199606041700.KAA16946@labrador.mv.us.adobe.com"
* X-Fax: 1(415) 962-6063
* X-Phone: 1 (415) 962-3945
subject="Minutes June 3rd"
To: "Dave Raggett" <dsr@w3.org>
Cc: w3c-math-erb@w3.org


     
   
Regarding the naming of subexpressions I'd like to point out two slightly
differing kinds of subexpression/expression naming relevant to producing
speech.

In AsTeR, you could name a cross-referencable object such as an equation with
meaningful names e.g. Fibonacci's  formula instead of equation 1.13
--this made listening to cross-referenced material easier.
See http://www.cs.cornell.edu/Info/People/raman/current/phd-thesis/html/node11.
html#SECTION00162000000000000000

AsTeR also performed the other kind of sub-expression naming which I think got
discussed yesterday during the meeting.
I refered to this in AsTeR as "variable substitution".
--"folding" to use Dave's terminology--
AsTeR also implemented a fairly straight-forward naming algorithm for giving
meaningful names to sub-expressions e.g. "lower constraint 1" and denominator
3" etc.

The problem of recognizing that two subexpressions are identical is actually
very hard if you're working with a written/typeset document --AsTeR did not
attempt to do this. However, even without the intelligence to recognize two
semantically equivalent instances of a  subexpression, "variable substitution"
or "folding" as Dave refers to it in his minutes is *really* useful for speech
and I suspect it would be very useful for small visual displays.

In fact after I implemented the variable substitution  in AsTeR Rich Zippel at
Cornell pointed out that symbolic math systems in the early 70's had to
implement something analogous to display complex expressions since the
displays available at the time were not as graphically rich as what we have
today.

Here are the relevant sections from the thesis:

http://www.cs.cornell.edu/Info/People/raman/current/phd-thesis/html/node90.html
#SECTION00467000000000000000
and
http://www.cs.cornell.edu/Info/People/raman/current/phd-thesis/html/node83.html
#SECTION00460000000000000000

--
Best Regards,
--raman

      Adobe Systems                 Tel: 1 (415) 962 3945   (B-1 115)
      Advanced Technology Group     Fax: 1 (415) 962 6063
      (E 1-160) 1585 Charleston Road       Email: raman@adobe.com
      Mountain View, CA 94039 -7900  raman@cs.cornell.edu
      http://www-atg/People/Raman.html (Internal To Adobe)
      http://www.cs.cornell.edu/Info/People/raman/raman.html  (Cornell)
Disclaimer: The opinions expressed are my own and in no way should be taken
            as representative of my employer, Adobe Systems Inc.




docno="lists-046-12139072"
name="Dave Raggett"
email="dsr@w3.org"
sent="Tue, 04 Jun 1996 15:30:06 -0400"
id="199606041930.AA164046606@w3.org"
subject="Re: Comments on parsing steps:"
To: w3c-math-erb@w3.org<199606040606.AA03032@drizzle.wri.com>



     
   

> Mathematica's parsing, which works in a manner similar to what Bruce
> describes, has no problem handling complex embellishments.

I can see value in allowing prefix and postfix operators to act as
operator embellishments, for instance to add accents to operators or
to change their relative size, or position.

If these embellishment prefix and postfix operators have a high
precedence and hence bind tightly to the adjacent operator then
I don't see any problems. Am I missing something?

-- Dave Raggett <dsr@w3.org> tel: +1 (617) 258 5741 fax: +1 (617) 258 5999
   World Wide Web Consortium, 545 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA 02139
   url = http://www.w3.org/People/Raggett




docno="lists-046-12142206"
name="Nico Poppelier"
email="nico@valacar.elsevier.nl"
sent="Wed, 5 Jun 1996 09:41:42 +0200 (MET DST)"
id="199606050741.JAA03224@thorin.elsevier.nl"
* X-Mailer: ELM [version 2.4 PL25]
subject="more comments on HTML-Math proposal"
To: w3c-math-erb@w3.org



     
   
I've read the proposal from Wolfram Research again. Some more
comments:

I agree with Ron Whitney, and should have said so before, that the
effort that has gone into this proposal is substantial, and this
is really concrete stuff we can "chew on".
I also had the feeling for some time, and the same feeling exists
in the SGML community, that the developments of HTML-Math and of
HTML in general were suffering from a NIH syndrome. I also
see that extensible languages are hard to realize within the
possibilities of the SGML language. I certainly support the use
of ISO TR 9573 entity names for mathematical and technical symbols,
as I have written earlier.

While reading the discussion between Bruce Smith and Ron Whitney, I
have come to the conclusion that the plug-in solution will not
work, because we need the possibility of anchor's within math,
and math in text in math. I'd like to see what you all think
about this, since this is what Dave proposed e.g. at the DLI
Math meeting in Illinois.

Regards,

Nico

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dr. Nico A.F.M. Poppelier
Elsevier Science, APD, ITD               Email: n.poppelier@elsevier.nl.
Molenwerf 1, 1014 AG Amsterdam           Phone: +31-20-4853482.
The Netherlands                          Fax:   +31-20-4853706.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  The truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.
                                             And maybe some compromises.
     




docno="lists-046-12146425"
name="Ron Whitney"
email="RFW@math.ams.org"
sent="Wed, 05 Jun 1996 10:05:48 -0400 (EDT)"
inreplyto="199606050741.JAA03224@thorin.elsevier.nl"
* Mail-System-Version:
id="833983548.437563.RFW@MATH.AMS.ORG"
subject="Re: more comments on HTML-Math proposal"
To: w3c-math-erb@w3.org



     
   
Nico commented recently:

> I also had the feeling for some time, and the same feeling exists in
> the SGML community, that the developments of HTML-Math and of HTML
> in general were suffering from a NIH syndrome.

I understand such perceptions, think it's wise for this committee to
keep good citizenship in mind, and agree that we should be receptive
to reaction and criticism from elsewhere.  My own perceptions of this
committee's work to date follow.

While the immediate goal of an HTML-Math capability might have been to
simply render math visually (and perhaps this was the goal of
HTML-Math 3), that goal has been considerably expanded as we look at
issues now.  Insofar as the work of the ISO 12083 Math Committee
stopped short of recommending ways to handle "semantic" aspects of
math markup, recognizing that the issues were many and difficult, the
work of this committee in that regard feels to me a welcome addition
to the overall discussion of those sorts of problems.  And as the
semantics of any formal discipline lies rather closer to form than
I've heard many SGML diehards acknowledge, I also welcome this
committee's efforts to examine a more primitive notational base for
the standard.  This effort, in some sense competing with Roy Pike's,
seems very healthy to me.  Pike appears undissuadable in my view.

The Wolfram proposal certainly acknowledges the need to accommodate
SGML entities and supports and SGML style of markup.  In my recent
list of questions and comments to Bruce, I made reference to the fact
that I felt ISO 12083 Math gave a good basis for the fundamental
layout schemata and might better be used than TeX for HTML-math.
I was hoping, and still do, that formal support such as this would
give a direct means of filtering ISO 12083 math into HTML-math.  Support
in this way gives strong acknowledgement to prior SGML work.

And then there may be the feeling that WRI is pushing a standard of
its own.  While Stephen himself broadcasts at a very powerful wattage,
I've found the committee members from WRI quite accommodating and
undogmatic.  I view their contributions as wholly positive.  I'm
certain that Nico was *not* asserting otherwise, but I would
communicate this to others from outside the committee if a perception
of a WRI-centric "standard" is misapprehended.  This is a quiet
statement, not a defensive one.


-Ron




docno="lists-046-12151335"
name="Nico Poppelier"
email="nico@valacar.elsevier.nl"
sent="Wed, 5 Jun 1996 16:38:21 +0200 (MET DST)"
id="199606051438.QAA03524@thorin.elsevier.nl"
* X-Mailer: ELM [version 2.4 PL25]
subject="Response to Ron Whitney"
To: w3c-math-erb@w3.org



     
   
Ron Whitney writes:
> undogmatic.  I view their contributions as wholly positive.  I'm
> certain that Nico was *not* asserting otherwise, but I would
Ron is right: I was not trying to assert otherwise, but I was
asking a question (perhaps not neutrally enough :-), because
I am only vaguely familiar with Mathematica. I asked the question
because I wanted to know how feasible the mechanisms are that Bruce
describes. If Mathematica already implements something similar, this
is an argument in support of feasibility. It also might give an
indication of how easy or difficult it is to come up with a real
implementation.

I agree with Ron that there is some politics involved as well. I
think this group should make it absolutely clear that we will
draw inspiration from ISO 12083 as much as we need, and that we
will use the ISO TR 9573 entity sets, and also that WRI is not
"running the show".

As an aside: at the SGML Europe'96 conference Roy Pike attended the
meeting of the committee responsible for ISO 12083, chaired by Eric
van Herwijnen, and we got him to consent to the idea that there will
always be users who need/insist on a P(resentation) (geometric, visual)
notation. I said "he consented", but I should have said
"he consented grudgingly and certainly not wholeheartedly". :-)

Nico

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dr. Nico A.F.M. Poppelier
Elsevier Science, APD, ITD               Email: n.poppelier@elsevier.nl.
Molenwerf 1, 1014 AG Amsterdam           Phone: +31-20-4853482.
The Netherlands                          Fax:   +31-20-4853706.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  The truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.
                                             And maybe some compromises.
     




docno="lists-046-12155427"
name="Dave Raggett"
email="dsr@w3.org"
sent="Wed, 05 Jun 1996 15:50:28 -0400"
id="199606051950.AA173014228@w3.org"
subject="Re: more comments on HTML-Math proposal"
To: n.poppelier@elsevier.nl
Cc: w3c-math-erb@w3.org<199606050741.JAA03224@thorin.elsevier.nl>


     
   


> While reading the discussion between Bruce Smith and Ron Whitney, I
> have come to the conclusion that the plug-in solution will not
> work, because we need the possibility of anchor's within math,
> and math in text in math. I'd like to see what you all think
> about this, since this is what Dave proposed e.g. at the DLI
> Math meeting in Illinois.

I agree that today's plug-in api's are inadequate and am working
to get this fixed. You can however make anchors within plugins
work. The plugin is passed mouse events and can in turn call
back to the browser to display a URL. This is enough to allow
anchor's within math, and math in text in math, with the
burden placed on the plugin.

-- Dave Raggett <dsr@w3.org> tel: +1 (617) 258 5741 fax: +1 (617) 258 5999
   World Wide Web Consortium, 545 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA 02139
   url = http://www.w3.org/People/Raggett




docno="lists-046-12158926"
name="Neil Soiffer"
email="soiffer@wri.com"
sent="Wed, 5 Jun 1996 19:06:49 -0700"
id="199606060206.AA06946@drizzle.wri.com"
subject="Re: Comments on parsing steps:"
To: dsr@w3.org
Cc: w3c-math-erb@w3.org


     
   
>> Mathematica's parsing, which works in a manner similar to what Bruce
>> describes, has no problem handling complex embellishments.

>I can see value in allowing prefix and postfix operators to act as
>operator embellishments, for instance to add accents to operators or
>to change their relative size, or position.

>If these embellishment prefix and postfix operators have a high
>precedence and hence bind tightly to the adjacent operator then
>I don't see any problems. Am I missing something?

I think that there is a problem with prefix embellishments.
The arguments are technical, so people who don't care can stop reading.

When the parser encounters something like a +_2 b,
it knows by the time of reading the '+' that it must have a right operand.
The most reasonable "error correction" would be to have the '_' embellishe '+'.
However, consider the following:
    &bold + 2
with '&bold' being a high-precedence prefix operator.
When the parser sees the '+', it sees that it must be a prefix operator,
and so will shift the '2' on.  So, this expression would result in:
    {&bold {+ 2}}
To get what you probably wanted, you would need to write
    {&bold +} 2
For a large number of cases, such as '&bold x + 2', the right thing would
happen.  It is just when you try to embellish an operator.
A high-precedence postfix &bold would not have this problem.
Since the details of why a prefix embellishing operator sometimes "works"
right and sometimes doesn't are probably beyond most authors, I think we
should avoid them.  Or if we must have them, tell people to always uses
braces to properly group it.

        Neil




docno="lists-046-12162937"
name="Dave Raggett"
email="dsr@w3.org"
sent="Thu, 06 Jun 1996 11:10:10 -0400"
id="199606061510.AA181383810@w3.org"
subject="Re: Comments on parsing steps:"
To: w3c-math-erb@w3.org<199606060206.AA06946@drizzle.wri.com>



     
   

Neil,

>>I can see value in allowing prefix and postfix operators to act as
>>operator embellishments, for instance to add accents to operators or
>>to change their relative size, or position.
...
> Since the details of why a prefix embellishing operator sometimes "works"
> right and sometimes doesn't are probably beyond most authors, I think we
> should avoid them.  Or if we must have them, tell people to always uses
> braces to properly group it.

I am unconvinced by your examples.

> When the parser encounters something like a + _2 b,
> it knows by the time of reading the '+' that it must have a right operand.

Fine, but that also applies to:

        a &big + b

with the information that &big can act as a prefix embellishment operator
this yields:

        {a {&big +} b}

Otherwise this would parse as:

        {a . {&big {+ b}}}

where `.' is an inferred infix operator, presumably denoting multiplication.

> However, consider the following:

>       &bold + 2

> with '&bold' being a high-precedence prefix operator. When the parser sees
> the '+', it sees that it must be a prefix operator, and so will shift the
> `2' on.  So, this expression would result in:

>       {&bold {+ 2}}

If each operator has a property indicating that it can act as an
embellishment on other operators, then we can use this fact to make
the above parse as

        {&bold +} 2

in preference to the interpretation of &bold as a normal prefix operator.
In essence we sort the operator precedence reduction rules into a sequence
that resolves potential ambiguities between different operator roles defined
by the dictionary for each symbol.

You have already asserted that people are comfortable with dictionary
definitions for the roles of symbols as prefix, infix or postfix operators
(including their precedences). Extending the dictionary to define whether
each symbol can act as prefix, infix or postfix embellishment operators
seems a straightforward addition.

Can you give me examples that would be hard to explain to a user?

-- Dave Raggett <dsr@w3.org> tel: +1 (617) 258 5741 fax: +1 (617) 258 5999
   World Wide Web Consortium, 545 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA 02139
   url = http://www.w3.org/People/Raggett








A defense of Michael Moore and "Bowling for Columbine" (Op-Ed)By Eloquence Wed Aug 13th, 2003 at 09:00:09 AM EST 

This is an open letter to David Hardy, author of Bowling for Columbine: Documentary or Fiction?, probably the most comprehensive among many rebuttals of the Oscar-winning documentary. Critics have now gone so far as to call for the revocation of the award. Their chances are small, however, as their arguments rely on polemic, exaggeration and misrepresentation -- in other words, on the same techniques which they accuse Moore of using. 
Dear David Hardy, 
It is fascinating to watch the organized character assassination of Michael Moore that has been going on in the United States since the release of his last documentary. In a time of simple-minded patriotism, loud, clear and dissenting voices like Mr. Moore's are perceived as disturbing and have to be silenced, partially through well funded public relations campaigns, partially through conservative "grass-roots" propaganda. Not surprisingly, much of the criticism of Moore's film is misguided or outright wrong, often vastly more inaccurate than Moore's work itself. 

Moore portrays the NRA as an unethical, dishonest organization; he sees the paranoia and fear in the United States as a primary cause of violence, and he does not see gun ownership itself as a problem. His documentary is full of subtle humor, jaw-dropping dialogue and dark contrasts. All in all, it is an accurate portrayal of America's gun and violence culture. It also raises questions about America's foreign policy of recent decades, questions which have been all but ignored by Moore's critics. 
On your webpage, you state that "Moore's resolution is questionable. After all, early in the movie he discards the possibility that playing violent video games and watching violent flicks can cause violence -- because Canadians like, and Japanese positively love, those. If violent movies and violent videogames cannot cause violence -- then how can newscasts about violence do so?" 
This is a faulty generalization. If, as Moore implies (although never states as fact), video games and violent movies are relatively harmless, it does not logically follow that all types of media presentation are harmless. There is a huge difference, for example, between playing a game like "Quake" and listening to a radio broadcast that tells you that your family will be killed unless you take action to kill others now. The latter is the kind of media propaganda that was used to unleash a genocide in Rwanda in 1994, which killed 800,000 people. Similarly, the main motivation for the crusades (beyond the promise of wealth) was that Christians were supposedly being slaughtered and had to be saved. 
Obviously, media propaganda can incite people to kill. Interactive fiction like video games, on the other hand, presents violence in a narrative context, which may very well desensitize participants to said violence, but no causative link has ever been proven. Moore's hypothesis (which apparently comes at least in part from the book "Culture of Fear" by Barry Glassner, also advertised on Moore's website) is that the constant bombardment with messages of fear can incite paranoia, which itself can lead to violent acts. This is consistent with the kind of media-incited violence described above, and in no relationship whatsoever to the theory of video game or music incited violence. It is no surprise, however, that US (and European) media do not question their own propaganda of fear. 
Moore's second hypothesis is that America's foreign policy may contribute to the belief that violence is an appropriate means to solve conflicts, a hypothesis which is shared by many sociologists and psychologists. Children who grow up in war-torn regions are known for having similar views -- war is perceived as a normal part of existence, violence as a natural way to solve disputes. In a weaker sense, the same message is projected to American children, who grow up being told that it is not acceptable to be violent to one another, but who simultaneously have to endure corporal punishment and media messages about how "the enemies of freedom" are punished. Moore's film was made before the dead bodies of Qusay and Uday Hussein were paraded on national TV. Americans were gloating over this demented corpse show: 
"They squealed like little piggies too, so you'll have to make do with 'oink, oink, squeeeeeeeallll' for their last words. That goes for your grandson Mustafa too, by the way. Still think fucking with the U.S. was a good idea, Sammy?" 
Mustafa was 14 years when he was killed. Americans cheer the killing of children, yet wonder why their own children grow up to be more violent than those in other nations. It is paradoxical notions like this one which Moore's film seeks to address. 
Inaccuracies 
Your webpage list a number of alleged inaccuracies in Moore's movies. It is true that Moore's film is sometimes unintentionally deceptive, but to call it fraudulent is hyperbole to the extreme. It is no more so than any other successful documentary of the last decades. Let's look at some specific criticisms: 
1) The bank scene, listed on your website on a separate page. Critics have stated that this scene was "staged", but in the bank interview, the official tells Moore that the bank has its own vault storing about 500 weapons at any given time. It is also a licensed firearms dealer which can perform its own background checks. In an interview with the Wall Street Journal, linked from your site, an employee claims that the gun would have been "normally" picked up at another dealer. It is not explained what "normally" is supposed to mean, but that claim flatly contradicts the statement of the bank official in the film. This sounds more like a later correction for public relations purposes, but of course nobody questions the bank claims when they can be used against Moore. 
The only thing that Moore compressed is the timeframe. According to the same WSJ interview, "Typically, you're looking at a week to 10 days waiting period." This is plausible -- but entirely irrelevant for the movie, which already makes it quite clear that a background check is being performed. Moore's detractors have sometimes extended those 7-10 days to several weeks, contradicting the bank's own estimate. 
There is nothing inaccurate whatsoever about the bank scene. The bank does exactly what it advertises: It hands out guns from its vault to those who open an account. The silly criticisms of the scene obscure the real obscenity of the situation: a bank handing out guns to its customers, higlighting the utter laxness of how Americans deal with deadly weapons and a love of firearms that borders on the religious. 
2) The Lockheed-Martin interview. This is perhaps the criticism repeated the most often, and it also the most inaccurate. First, the actual quotes from the film are often reproduced incorrectly. The dialogue goes as follows: 
Moore: "So you don't think our kids say to themselves, gee, dad goes off to the factory every day - he builds missiles. These are weapons of mass destruction. What's the difference between that mass destruction and the mass destruction over at Columbine High School?" 
McCollum (PR person): "I guess I don't see that specific connection because the missiles that you're talking about were built and designed to defend us from somebody else who would be aggressors against us." 
First, note the word "our" in Moore's question. Moore is not from Colorado -- his question is generic, not meant to refer specifically to the Lockheed Martin plant in question. McCollum understands it this way -- otherwise he would protest against the plant being mischaracterized. However, critics of Moore have cleverly ignored McCollum's response and presented Moore as spreading lies about the Lockheed plant. 
Even Lockheed did not believe the public to be that gullible. In response to one Moore detractor, McCollum wrote: "Although other units of Lockheed Martin Corporation elsewhere in the country produce weapons to support the defense of the U.S., we make no weapons at the Littleton-area facility Moore visited." Of course, critics have conveniently ignored the fact that Lockheed Martin does supply weapons of mass destruction to the US military, and that the company is the nation's largest military contractor. As Moore correctly points out, it is bizarre for a society to openly embrace the production of destructive weapons, but on the other hand see no connection of this to everyday violence -- children learn by imitating adults. 
Yes, Moore makes this point through slight exaggeration by moving with the camera through the LM plant -- but he makes no incorrect statement. It is typical for his critics to jump on what is at most a slightly misleading implication, but in doing so, they themselves have, unlike Moore, made many incorrect claims. 
3) Denver NRA meeting. Critics like yourself claim that Moore has massively distorted evidence to support his point that Charlton Heston has effectively insulted the victims of the Columbine tragedy by holding a rally in Denver shortly afterwards. 
First, the "from my cold, dead hands" part: This is used by Moore as a visual citation to introduce Heston. It is perhaps one of his most famous quotes, shown on national TV even here in Germany. It tells viewers: Aha, this is the person we are talking about. Nowhere does Moore say or imply that these words were uttered at the rally in Denver, and in fact, their reptition later in the movie at another occasion (oddly claimed by critics to be again "misattributed") is simply a reminder of this. It is Moore's way to say: Viewers, meet Charlton Heston, gun nut extraordinaire. 
The "visual of a billboard and a narration" is viewed by you as evidence that Moore is trying to somehow tie the two events together, when in reality, it is quite obvious that he does it to separate the introduction of Heston from his speech in Denver. Moore is a professional filmmaker -- he concentrates on maximum impact of each of the statements he cites, and to accomplish that effect, uses subtle interludes instead of long-winded introductions. This is a common technique, but because conservative readers are not familiar with the basics of filmmaking, they believe critics who claim that he is "distorting" the interview. What he does is standard filmmaking practice. 
The same goes for the interview which follows. Moore's critics would expect us to have him quote Heston in his entirety, have him present fully the PR that the NRA has used to justify its rally in Denver for reasons of "balance". The NRA was fully aware of the scandal it would cause through its rally and decided to push on because they believed to have enough media support to successfully do so. They were right. You claim that there was "no way to change location, since you have to give advance notice of that to the members, and there were upwards of 4,000,000 members." 10 days are more than enough to give advance warning of a change in location or date, had the NRA really wanted to. It is probably correct that their primary reason for not doing so was to save money, not to piss off the victims of Colubmine. That does not change the fact that they did just that. Moore presents the most important part of the speech to back up this point and ignores the fluff. This is what good documentary filmmaking is about. And here the critics again ignore important evidence: 
When Heston mentions the mayor of Denver, the crowd boos loudly. Heston maganimously holds up a hand to read the mayor's letter (only to explain in detail why he chose to ignore the request -- not mentioning at all the reasons you have given!). This booing by the crowd, not mentioned with a single word in your transcript or your article, shows that the crowd was fully aware of the controversy they would cause by coming to Littleton after children were being killed there -- and they effectively said "Fuck you". To say that they could not have done otherwise is a bold lie by Moore's critics. 
4) The Kayla Rolland case. Again, critics like yourself charge Moore with deception. The rally took place on October 17, the shooting on February 29. Again, standard filmmaking techniques are interpreted as smooth distortion: "Moore works by depriving you of context and guiding your mind to fill the vacuum -- with completely false ideas. It is brilliantly, if unethically, done." As noted above, the "from my cold dead hands" part is simply Moore's way to introduce Heston. Did anyone but Moore's critics view it as anything else? He certainly does not "attribute it to a speech where it was not uttered" and, as noted above, doing so twice would make no sense whatsoever if Moore was the mastermind deceiver that his critics claim he is. 
Concerning the Georgetown Hoya interview where Heston was asked about Rolland, you write: "There is no indication that [Heston] recognized Kayla Rolland's case." This is naive to the extreme -- Heston would not be president of the NRA if he was not kept up to date on the most prominent cases of gun violence. Even if he did not respond to that part of the interview, he certainly knew about the case at that point. 
Regarding the NRA website excerpt about the case and the highlighting of the phrase "48 hours after Kayla Rolland is pronounced dead": This is one valid criticism, but far from the deliberate distortion you make it out to be; rather, it is an example for how the facts can sometimes be easy to miss with Moore's fast pace editing. The reason the sentence is highlighted is not to deceive the viewer into believing that Heston hurried to Flint to immediately hold a rally there (as will become quite obvious), but simply to highlight the first mention of the name "Kayla Rolland" in the text, which is in this paragraph. 
Unfortunately, because the zooming is rather fast, it is easy to miss the rest of the sentence, so as you correctly note, some viewers got an incorrect impression. It would have been fair for Moore to point out this possible misinterpretation on his website. However, the claim of deliberate distortion is ludicrous for several reasons: 
a) Moore clearly states that "before he came to Flint", Heston gave an interview. In the excerpt from said interview, we can see that it is from March. If Moore wanted to deceive his viewers, why would he say this, and show the month the interview was published? 
b) Why should Moore leave the words "Clinton is on the Today Show" visible in the text, which is necessary to correctly interpret the highlighted part? I reviewed the sequence several times and it is perfectly possible to see this text without pausing. 
c) Both the "soccer mom" interview and the sequences showing the NRA rally make no effort to distort the fact that this rally happened months after the fact. The camera lingers on Bush/Cheney posters, and the protestor is quoted as saying that "we wanted to let the NRA know that we haven't forgotten about Kayla Rolland". You make the hysterical claim that the interview "may be faked" (on the basis that no name is shown for the interviewee), but if Moore had faked it, why the hell should he put this sentence in the protestor's mouth, which directly contradicts the conclusion that the rally happened hours after Kayla's death? Why did Moore, the masterful deveiver, not edit this sequence out? This makes no sense. 
Opinions may vary on how tasteless it was for Heston to hold a pro gun rally on the location of the nation's youngest school shooting months after the fact, but this sequence of "Bowling" is without doubt the most unfair to Heston. The claims of deliberate distortion don't hold up when viewing the whole scene, though -- as "Hanlon's Razor" states, one should never attribute to malice what can be attributed to incompetence. The somewhat inept editing of the NRA press release has led some viewers to wrong conclusions, which is unfortunate, but Moore's critics have no interest in viewing the matter fairly. Had they done so, Moore himself would probably have apologized for the gaffe. In any case, at no point does Moore make a false statement, in contradiction to claims by critics that his documentary is "full of lies". 
5) You write: "Having created the desired impression, Moore follows with his Heston interview." No, he doesn't. You accuse Moore so often of changing the chronology, yet you have no problems changing it yourself. The Heston interview is at the very end of the movie. After the Flint rally comes a brief TV interview with Heston, where he is asked about Kayla Rolland (again, clear evidence that the local media in Flint raised questions about the NRA's presence), then an inteview with country prosecutor Arthur Busch, entirely ignored by critics of the film, who also mentions Heston's presence as notable, and refers to the immediate reactions of "people from all over America", gun owners/groups who, according to him, reacted aggressively to warnings of having guns accessible to children, much like spanking advocates react aggressively when anti-spankers point to a case of a child being killed or severely injured by a beating. These people do not feel the need to express sympathy, or to think about ways to avoid such incidents, but they feel the need to assert their "rights" and to look for quick, simple answers -- as Busch states, gun owners wanted to "hang [the child] from the highest tree". This is all not mentioned by critics of Moore's movie, who claim to be objective. 
Perhaps the best example of the paranoia surrounding Moore's film is your sub-essay "Is the end of the Heston interview itself faked?" 
Moore answers a simple question -- how could the scene have been filmed -- with a simple answer: two cameras. From this, you construct an obscure conspiracy of "re-enactment": "For all we can tell, Moore could have shouted 'Hey!' to make Heston turn around and then remained silent as Heston left." Even if your "re-enactment" theory is true (and I see no evidence that you have actually tried to ask the people involved in the filmmaking for their opinion), this itself is not unethical, and you have no evidence whatsoever that Moore has done anything unethical here, just like you have no evidence that Moore has unethically removed parts of the interview. You use standard filmmaking technique as a basis to construct bizarre conspiracies which sound plausible to the gullible reader, without ever providing any evidence for the implicit or explicit claims of fraud and distortion. 
6)Animated history of the US. Of course the cartoon is highly oversimplified, and most critics consider it one of the weakest parts of the film. But it makes a valid claim which you ignore entirely: That the strategy to promote "gun rights" for white people and to outlaw gun possession by black people was a way to uphold racism without letting an openly terrorist organization like the KKK flourish. Did the 19th century NRA in the southern states promote gun rights for black people? I highly doubt it. But if they didn't, one of their functions was to continue the racism of the KKK. This is the key message of this part of the animation, which is again being ignored by its critics. 
7) Buell shooting in Flint. You write: "Fact: The little boy was the class thug, already suspended from school for stabbing another kid with a pencil, and had fought with Kayla the day before". This characterization of a six-year-old as a pencil-stabbing thug is exactly the kind of hysteria that Moore's film warns against. It is the typical right-wing reaction which looks for simple answers that do not contradict the Republican mindset. The kid was a little bastard, and the parents were involved in drugs -- case closed. But why do people deal with drugs? Because it's so much fun to do so? It is by now well documented that the CIA tolerated crack sales in US cities to fund the operation of South American "contras" 
It is equally well known that the so-called "war on drugs" begun under the Nixon administration is a failure which has cost hundreds of billions and made America the world leader in prison population (both in relative and absolute numbers). 
In poor areas, the highly profitable drug business obviously is often seen as the last resort. But the real cause here are not the drugs themselves, but poverty and the "war on drugs". 
Had the boy's mother not been shipped to a "welfare to work" program, she might at least have had some time to spend with her son. Virtually every child psychologist knows that mother/child bonding is essential for the development of empathy and social abilities, the awareness of the consequences of one's actions, and the learning of conflict resolution by non-violent means. Even the official quoted by Moore blames the welfare to work program, knowing full well that the drug issue is a red herring. Once again, your emphasis on the little boy as a thug confirms Moore's (and Busch's) assertion that people wanted to hang the child from the highest tree instead of looking at the real causes. 
That's because while there is a so-called war on drugs, there is no war on poverty. Poverty is frequently portrayed as natural, and the poor in America are seen by conservatives as VCR-owners who are just too lazy to work. 
In reality, what Moore describes here is the most vivid example of what can only be called wage slavery I have ever seen, to the detriment of families. 
It is notable that the Wall Street Journal's reaction to this segment of the film was even more dismissive than yours: It called Moore's claim "preposterous". How could he even think about blaming poverty and forced labor programs for anything bad that happens? 
8) Taliban and American aid. After the September 11 attacks, it was necessary for conservatives to somehow explain away the fact that the US government gave 245 million dollars to the new evildoers du jour. Never mind the fact that authors such as Robert Scheer warned of aiding the Taliban as early as in May 2001. Never mind that they did so not out of some humanitarian motivation, but because of the Taliban's violent enforcement of the ban on opium poppies. Never mind that in a regime that is controlled by warlords, it does not matter who is authorized to distribute the aid -- the ruling regional warlords will seize control of it and use it to their own advantage. Never mind that this very argument has been used by hawks in opposition to sending humanitarian aid to Iraq's Saddam Hussein. Never mind that the Taliban continued selling opium in spite of the deal. Never mind that this is all documented on Michael Moore's website about the film. 
9) Gun homicides. Statistics are Moore's weakest point, and it is surprising that his critics don't dwell on them longer. That's because they know all too well that Moore is correct: The United States have a far greater homicide rate (both gun- and non-gun) than most other first world countries. His main mistake is that he does not use population corrected data, his second mistake is that he does not cite his sources (and, as you correctly point out, he probably uses different reporting methods for the different countries). A good comparison of international homicide rates can be found on the relatively neutral guncite.com website. 
Not surprisingly, guncite, too, compares data from different years -- as I know from personal experience, it is quite difficult to do comparisons of crime statistics due to differences in reporting frequency and methodology. The gun homicide rates for the countries Moore mentioned, according to guncite, are: 
Japan: 0.02 per 100,000 (1994)England/Wales: 0.11 per 100,000 (1997)Germany: 0.22 per 100,000 (1994)Australia: 0.44 per 100,000 (1994)United States: 3.72 per 100,000 (1999)
Critics fail to credit Moore with not making the same mistake that some gun control advocates make -- concluding that gun ownership "leads" to violence. In fact, Moore mentions several counter-examples, and more such counter-examples can indeed be cited. It is intuitively obvious that guns do not actually cause violence -- but it is equally intuitively obvious that they make the violence that is committed more deadly. It is the second intuition which gun rights groups like the NRA seek to obscure using fraudulent data by the likes of John "Mary" Lott. 
The gun control movement, on the other hand, distracts from the real causes of violence -- poverty, paranoia, the "war on drugs" and antisexuality. If these causes were addressed, gun ownership in the United States would not be a problem (but also unnecessary); just like it is in Switzerland. 
10) Canada ammunition purchase. You write: 
Bowling shows Moore casually buying ammunition at an Ontario Walmart. He asks us to "look at what I, a foreign citizen, was able to do at a local Canadian Wal-Mart." He buys several boxes of ammunition without a question being raised. "That's right. I could buy as much ammunition as I wanted, in Canada. Canadian officials have pointed out that the buy is faked or illegal. 
Once again, you fail to distinguish between regular film editing and "faking" (a word which "Canadian officials" have never used; for such a distortion, Moore would have been boiled alive by his critics). If Moore simply chose not to show how he revealed his identification to the salesperson, there is nothing fraudulent about that. He made no claims whatsoever in the film about the need to show or not show identification. His claim that it is possible to purchase ammunition in supermarkets is independent from that claim. 
11) Heston's allegedly implied racism. You conclude from Heston's own words that Heston was somehow portrayed as racist. If anything, it is his own failure that he did not clarify what he meant with "having a more mixed ethnicity". Heston's answers in the interview were evasive and unhelpful. While this can in part be explained with his age and mental condition, if he is unable to defend the interests of the NRA, he should not be their spokesman. In this case, Hanlon's Razor can be applied to Heston -- he is probably not racist, but incompetent. Your accusations of inappropriate cutting are once again entirely unsupported -- in fact, it is quite clear from watching that particular scene that there is not a single cut from the point at which Moore asks Heston a second time for the cause of the higher violence in the States, and the point when he mentions the Kayla Rolland incident. If Heston makes himself look like a fool, that should hardly be blamed on Michael Moore. 
Conclusion 
You write: "Bowling for Columbine is dishonest. It is fraudulent. To trash Heston, it even uses the audio/video editor to assemble a Heston speech that Heston did not give, and sequences images and carefully highlighted text to spin the viewer's mind to a wrong conclusion." None of this is true. What is true is that Bowling for Columbine is a diamond in the small world of big screen documentaries, one that shines brightly and illuminates an often misunderstood aspect of American culture. It is not a flawless diamond -- the "48 hours" scene in particular suffers from bad editing, the statistics are suboptimal, and Heston gets a bit more bashing than he deserves. Other than towards the NRA, the movie tries hard to avoid simplistic conclusions, and comes up with some thoughtful answers. The most shameful part of the ongoing attacks against Moore is that these answers have been all but ignored by his critics. Had Moore wanted to make a propaganda film, he would have used other material: photos from America's Emergency Rooms. 
Certainly, Moore is one of the most talented filmmakers in the United States today, and his film fully deserved its Oscar. The shrill (and remarkably unsuccessful) Internet campaign to "revoke" his award seems to be motivated more by jealousy than by real concerns about the film's accuracy. It is not only the highest grossing non-music documentary of all time, among the users of the largest Internet film database, IMDB, it is also the highest rated one. According to the LA Times, the documentary genre "owes a huge debt to Michael Moore" -- after Bowling's success, films like "Spellbound" and "Capturing the Friedmans" were taken seriously and shown in many more theatres than otherwise likely. 
But perhaps the campaign against Moore is really motivated by another reason. His next project has the working title "Fahrenheit 9/11: The temperature at which freedom burns", and he intends to launch it shortly before the next US presidential election. It is unlikely, however, that the unfair attacks against him will have much of an impact. After all, the same kind of PR blitz was started against the previous record-holding documentary: "Roger & Me" by Michael Moore. 
Yours sincerely, 
Erik Mller 
This text is in the public domain. 




   
      
         
            Proposal for a Red Harvester Ant Robot: Colony Infiltration and Task Switching
            Sonia Roberts
            11/27/07
            Introduction
            
            Background
            Science fiction writers have been anticipating humanoid androids that could pass a Turing Test for years. Unfortunately, as of yet, no robot has managed to fool a human for more than a few seconds, and no robot has been created that can integrate itself into human society. Infiltrating insect societies, however, is much simpler. Extensive research has been done on the interactions of social insects such as honeybees, ants and cockroaches, and in fact robots have passed undetected in cockroach society performing single simple behaviors already (Halloy et al, 2007). No robot has yet been constructed, however, that could pass undetected within a colony of the red harvester ants species Pogonomyrmex barbatus; nor has a robot managed to pass undetected in a society of insects while combining in its design several different behaviors and the thresholds of stimulation required to switch between them. Such a robot would allow for both long-term studies of ant-robot interactions and studies of task-switching in the robots. I propose here the theoretical construction and programming of a robot (hereafter referred to as Antie) that will be able to infiltrate a red harvester ant nest, switching between the foraging, patrolling and midden work behaviors.
            
            Environment
            The red harvester ant lives in hot, dry deserts, building its nests in light yellowy sand and foraging for seeds deposited by winds and rain. The ants forage for more than 30 different varieties of seeds, many of which do not grow in the desert (Gordon, 54), where only a few varieties of small shrubs, small herbaceous flowering plants and short grasses do grow (Gordon, 51). Other insects and creatures, including other species of ants, are present in the desert, but red harvester ants seem to be relatively undisturbed by these animals (Gordon, 7-11). Though fights sometimes do break out with other red harvester ants from different nests, intraspecies interactions tend not to be aggressive (Gordon, 11). Because of this, I will ignore other ant species in the design of Antie, and will not create a fighting behavior. Antie will be equipped to navigate in this environment and will be designed to find seeds in sandy soil.
            
            The Ant & the Robot
            Ants of this species are of two types: breeding ants (queens and drones) and sterile female workers. Queens and drones will not be considered in this proposal, as their behaviors and design is much more specialized and would be applicable only during the breeding season, which occurs but once per year. The behaviors of the sterile workers may be divided into several subcategories: brood care, nest maintenance, patrolling and foraging. Little is known about brood care, as this occurs only in the deepest regions of the nest and observation would generally require the destruction of the nest. Nest maintenance and seed processing are likewise difficult to observe in the deeper regions of the nest, but the sorting and deposition of waste dirt and nest garbage outside of the nest (midden work) occurs close enough to the surface to be observable. Patrolling and foraging, too, occur for the most part outside of the nest, and have therefore been studied extensively (ex., Schafer, et al, 2006; Gordon, et al, 2002; Gordon, 2002; Gordon, 1987). It is therefore these three behaviors that I would like to focus on in this proposal: the others remain a bit too mysterious to yet model, and the ability of a robot to pass undetected in the depths of a colony would be very difficult to observe.
            These three behaviors each present different puzzles to the ant and to the modeler, though there is some overlap, particularly with navigational problems. In the case of midden work, Antie must be able to identify garbage, grasp it, carry it out of the nest, and deposit it about halfway down the mound before returning to repeat the process ad infinitum (or until stimulated to switch behaviors). Patrolling may be divided into two distinct sub-behaviors, nest patrolling and trail patrolling. An ant engaged in nest patrolling must exit the nest at the proper time in the morning and wander about for a bit on the nest mound, presumably taking measurements of the temperature and humidity in some way and making sure that it is safe for the other ants to exit. Perhaps the level of degradation of the nest patrollers cuticular hydrocarbons after this short foray into the sun and heat acts as an indication of the outside conditions to the foragers, who may then, upon smelling the returning patroller, be stimulated either to forage or to remain inactive inside the nest. An ant engaged in trail patrolling must exit the nest, wander around searching for food sources, identify food upon discovery and return to the nest to show the foragers where the food is. This is thought to be accomplished by the deposition of chemical markers from a gland on the abdomen that the patroller drags along the ground on her return route to the nest that the foragers may then follow (Gordon, 33-34; Holldobler et al, 1990, as cited in Webb, 1998). In addition to following these trails to the food, foragers must also be able to identify food, grasp it and carry it back to the nest. Ants engaged in all three behaviors must be able to identify other nestmates and their current tasks (as well as indicate to other ants their own nestmate status and current task), walk, navigate both within and outside of the nest, and of course switch tasks at appropriate times.
            
            The Agent 
            
            Chassis
            Antie will be implemented on a tiny Road Warrior robotic system. Behaviors will be coded in Interactive C, for which some pseudocode is included. Sensors will include a thermometer, photoreceptors, bump sensors, a polarization compass, and a series of chemical receptors. Antie be a circular robot, no more than 1cm in diameter (the length of a red harvester ant), with two driving wheels and one rear wheel for stabilization. A gripper will be located on the front of the robot consisting of two elongated tongs. Antie will also feature a skirt of bump sensors, sonar detectors and chemical emitters, including sacs of hydrocarbons extracted from ants of the nest being infiltrated and pheromones for successful patrolling and foraging. These sacs will be refilled at a filling station each morning as Antie determines that they are getting depleted. Antie will likewise recharge at a special station at night just inside the nest entrance. For the purposes of this proposal, I will assume that Antie has enough battery life to remain powered the whole day. A rudimentary blueprint of Antie is attached. (Fig 1)
            
            Sensors
            In order to inform itself about its environment, Antie will need a number of sensors. In an attempt to mimic the red harvester ant as closely as possible, these sensors include a thermometer, photoreceptors, bump sensors and sonar, a polarization compass, and a series of chemical receptors on a pair of stalks corresponding to the antennae. On its front grippers, Antie will have a tactile skin to sense pressure. The locations of the rest of these sensors will depend on their function.
            The thermometer will be located on the rear of the robot to keep it out of the way, and will detect and input to the robot the outside temperature in degrees Celsius. Harvester ants do not exit the nest when the outside temperature is above 52 degrees Celsius (Gordon, 9), and the ability to use a temperature gradient will enable in-nest navigation.
            Antie will also be equipped with one photoreceptor located in the middle of the top of its chassis corresponding to the ants eyes. These will be useful for initiating patrolling behavior in the morning and shutting off behaviors at night: the patrollers first poke their heads out of the nest shortly after sunrise and scuttle back in at night (Gordon, 5).
            The bump sensors and sonar will form a skirt around Antie to keep it from colliding with other objects. The sonar will constantly be detecting nearby objects and initiate an escape maneuver when their inputs pass a certain threshold of stimulation, and the bump sensors will, when depressed, also initiate the escape function. The sonar will correspond to the ants limited optical object detection ability, and the bump sensors will allow the robot to detect collisions.
            The polarization compass will consist of two polarized light sensors placed at 45 and -45 degrees from the center front of Antie, respectively, that will orient Antie towards a desired polarization pattern. These sensors would correspond to the cells in the ants eyes sensitive to polarized light, and research has shown that many insects, including ants, do navigate using a path integration system synthesizing input from a polarization compasses and from a sort of odometer (Labhart, et al, 2002). Antie would use a system for processing the input from its polarization compass based on the compass designed by Lambrinos, Moller, Labhart, Pfeifer and Wehner in 2000, consisting of two photodiodes with blue filters and polarizers. (Fig 2) The difference of their logarithmized signals would be returned to Antie, who will use a simultaneous model to navigate returns to the nest: Upon each exit from the nest, Antie will take a single 360o scan of the sky, and will orient itself according to an analytical procedure to derive compass information from different polarization patterns perceived later. This should be sufficient to return Antie to the nest, given the accuracy achieved by Lambrinos, et al and the relatively short periods of time that harvester ants spend outside the nest before returning.
            
            
               
            
            Fig. 2. Diagram of the polarization-opponent unit described by Lambrinos, et al (2000). The unit takes in polarization levels through the two polarization-sensitive photodiodes and feeds them into the logarithm ratio amplifier, which returns the difference of the logarithmized signals from the photodiodes. The e-vector (heading) returned from the two polarization-sensitive photodiodes (1, 2) follows a cos2-function.
            
            Ants themselves rely primarily on chemical information taken in through their antennae, and to mimic this, Antie will have chemical sensing and emitting stalks with which to both interact with other ants (who may be surprised to find an ant without antennae) and take in chemical information. These stalks will need to have receptors to measure the n-alkene levels present in another ants cuticular hydrocarbons, which research indicates is the marker for harvester ants of a nestmates current task, perhaps because the hydrocarbons are altered in the dry sun, causing a different ratio of n-alkanes to n-alkenes and the presence of branched n-alkanes in the hydrocarbon profile (Wagner, et al, 2001, as cited in Gordon & Greene, 2003). Anties stalks would also have receptors for the hydrocarbons themselves, which research shows indicate to the ants whether another ant is their nestmate (Arnold, et al, 1996, as cited in Gordon & Mehdiabadi, 1999), receptors to detect food, and receptors for three types of pheromones: those released by successful foragers returning with food, those released by successful patrollers returning to the nest, and those marking piles of trash as midden. Research shows that successful foragers returning to the nest do have a different effect on the inactive workers than unsuccessful foragers returning (Schafer, et al, 2006). Returning successful patrollers have an even greater effect on foraging activity: foragers will not leave the nest unless a patroller returns (Gordon, 2002), and the rate of foraging in a colony can be controlled by rolling glass beads coated with cuticular hydrocarbons extracted from patrollers into the nest (Gordon & Greene, 2003; Greene & Gordon, 2007). Midden seems to be marked in some olfactory way, since removing midden from nests makes them more likely to be invaded by other species (Gordon, 35). For the purposes of this proposal, I will assume that the nest maintenance and food processing ants have marked the midden with a particular pheromone. All of these chemical receptors will be arranged in an array on a pair of chemical stalks, with four of each type of receptor per stalk. This technique, described by Ishida, et al (2001), has been shown to improve the chemical plume-tracking abilities of robots. The wires will lead back down through the stalk to the on-board PC.
            Finally, Antie will have tactile sensors on its grippers to analyze the pressure being exerted on a gripped object. These sensors will be of the type patented by Peterson, et al (Patent #4,492,949), and will feature several layers of electrically insulating and parallel flexible conductive rods arranged such that an exerted pressure may be measured in output voltage. These will correspond to the muscles of the ants mandibles, which provide sensorimotor feedback to the ant when grasping objects. A table of the sensors and their relation to the ants sensory system is provided below.
            
            Fig 3. Table of sensors and their relations to the ant.
            
               
                     
                        Sensor
                     
                     
                        Relation to Ant
                     
                     
                        Placement on Antie
                     
                     
                        Function
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        Sonar detectors
                     
                     
                        Eyes; object perception
                     
                     
                        Skirt
                     
                     
                        Prevent object collisions!
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        Thermometer
                     
                     
                        Ants respond to different temperatures
                     
                     
                        Rear
                     
                     
                        In-nest navigation; tells Antie when to stop engaging in extra-nest activity
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        Successful forager pheromone chemical detectors
                     
                     
                        Antennae
                     
                     
                        Stalks
                     
                     
                        Forager behavior activation
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        Successful patroller pheromone chemical detectors
                     
                     
                        Antennae
                     
                     
                        Stalks
                     
                     
                        Detect and follow trails left by patrollers
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        Photoreceptor
                     
                     
                        Eyes; light perception
                     
                     
                        Center top
                     
                     
                        Find surface from inside nest; tell patrollers when to begin patrolling in the morning
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        Hydrocarbon alkene level detectors
                     
                     
                        Antennae
                     
                     
                        Stalks
                     
                     
                        Determine what task other ants are engaged in
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        Cuticular hydrocarbon detectors
                     
                     
                        Antennae
                     
                     
                        Stalks
                     
                     
                        Determine whether an ant is a nestmate
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        Chemical seed detectors
                     
                     
                        Antennae
                     
                     
                        Stalks
                     
                     
                        Determine whether an object is a seed or not
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        Polarized photoreceptors 
                     
                     
                        Retina
                     
                     
                        45 and -45 degrees from center on top
                     
                     
                        Polarization compass
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        Midden pheromone chemical receptors
                     
                     
                        Antennae
                     
                     
                        Stalks
                     
                     
                        Determine whether an object is midden or not
                     
                  
            
            
            
            Motors
            Anties motors will allow it to move around and interact with its environment and fellow ants. There will be two individually operated motors to drive the two side wheels in lieu of legs. Two simultaneously operated motors will open and close the grippers, emulating the grasping power of the ants mandibles. A third motor will lift and lower the grippers, allowing Antie to raise and lower gripped items as an ant would by raising and lowering its head. Three small sprayers will emit successful patroller and forager pheromones and cuticular hydrocarbons from the appropriate sacs. These will be located in different places: the sprayer for the successful patroller pheromone will be located on the rear at the base of Antie, corresponding to the glands that researchers believe the ants drag along behind them to mark returning paths, while the successful forager and cuticular hydrocarbon sprayers will be located on the skirt. Antie will not spray different pheromones depending on its task, on the assumption that its time in the sun will alter its hydrocarbons enough that its tasks will be recognizable to other ants. Almost all motor output will be a direct function of sensory input as indicated in the following section.
            
            The Behavior
            
            Antie will have a hybrid software architecture: a subsumption hierarchy will be responsible for switching between behaviors, but many sub-behaviors will operate on a schema basis. Pseudocode will approximate this architecture as closely as possible, and where appropriate, different subroutines running on a schema basis will be marked.
            
            Common Behaviors
            A few sub-behaviors will be necessary for more than one behavior. To ease Anties on-board memory requirements and processing capabilities (and to make all the rest of the pseudocode easier for the reader to understand), I propose a few global variables and subroutines.
            The following global variables will be used throughout the pseudocode, and are compiled here for ease of reference:
            
            // number representing calibration for speed
            double calibrate = 0;
            
            // constant representing the light at sunrise
            double sunrise;
            
            // outputs
            double left_motor_OP = 0;// left wheel motor
            double right_motor_OP = 0; // right wheel motor
            
            // inputs
            double photo_IP;// photoreceptor
            double temp_IP;// thermometer
            
            // Array inputs from left and right midden pheromone 
            // detectors. Assume a function to determine more precise
            // location, returning these variables:
            double left_midden_IP;
            double right_midden_IP;
            
            // Array inputs from left and right alkene sensors. Assume a 
            // function to determine location:
            double left_alk_avg_IP;
            double right_alk_avg_IP;
            
            // Array inputs from left and right successful forager 
            // sensors. Assume a function to determine location:
            double left_sucfor_IP;
            double right_sucfor_IP;
            
            // Array inputs from left and right successful patroller
            // sensors. Assume a function to determine location:
            double left_sucpat_IP;
            double right_sucpat_IP;
            
            // Array inputs from left and right nestmate hydrocarbon 
            // detectors. Assume a function to determine location:
            double left_hydrocarb_IP;
            double right_hydrocarb_IP;
            
            // Array inputs from left and right chemical seed detectors.
            // Assume a function to determine location:
            double left_seed_IP;
            double right_seed_IP;
            
            
            // inputs from left and right sonar sensors:
            double left_sonar_IP;
            double right_sonar_IP;
            
            // Booleans representing detection
            boolean food_detect = false; // is an object food?
            boolean midden_detect = false; // is an object midden?
            boolean nestmate_detect = false; // is an object a nestmate?
            boolean sucfor_detect = false; // successful forager
            boolean forager_detect = false; // forager
            boolean midworker_detect = false; // midden worker
            poolean patroller_detect = false; // patroller
            boolean sucpat_detect = false; // successful patroller
            
            // thresholds at which inputs may be declared to
            // have been detected
            double food_threshold;
            double midden_threshold;
            double hydrocarb_threshold; // nestmate hydrocarbons
            boolean forage_active = false; // activation status as forager
            
            
            Common behaviors will include a forward cruise and turning mechanism, procedures to determine the orientation towards nest and the distance from the nest when outside, in-nest navigation, an escape function for when objects are detected or bumped into, object identification and gripping, a generic algorithm for pheromone plume and chemical trail following, and the identification of other ants.
            For a simple start, the forward cruise function will merely take in a double integer representing a speed and cause Antie to move forward at this speed.
            
            // Forward cruise
            // Takes in a number representing the desired speed.
            // Causes robot to cruise forward at said speed.
            // Speeds assumed to be on a 1-10 scale (10 being fastest).
            
            void forCruz(double speed) {
            // Each wheel input "gets" the appropriate speed
            // Calibrate is a double representing a calibration
            // initialized to zero and altered as necessary.
            
            // The robot will receive the GO command as long as
            // this function is running.
            
            left_motor_OP = speed + calibrate;
            right_motor_OP = speed;
            } // end forCruz
            
            A similar rotate function will be used to orient Antie towards a particular heading.
            
            // Rotate
            // Takes in a desired angle to rotate the robot and 
            // rotates accordingly
            // Assume that 10s is sufficient to rotate the robot 
            // completely around one wheel; this may be changed 
            // in implementation.
            
            void rotate(int angle) {
            // If angle to turn is to the right, rotate left wheel 
            // for a portion of 10s in accordance with desired 
            // angle's proportion of a circle
            if(angle>0) {
            while ([timer] < 10 * angle / 360) {
            left_motor_OP = 5;
            right_motor_OP = 0;
            }
            // else rotate right wheel for appropriate portion of 10s
            else {
            while ([timer] < 10 * angle / 360) {
            left_motor_OP = 0;
            right_motor_OP = 5;
            } // end while
            } // end else
            } // end rotate
            
            These behaviors will often be used in other subroutines running on a schema basis, and when combined with the forward cruise function, should cause the robot to move at an angle.
            In order to orient itself toward the nest while navigating outside, Antie will need to determine which direction the nest is in and rotate toward that heading, and also how far from the nest it is at its current location. The orientation and distance should be calculable by the polarization pattern according to the system set up by Lambrinos, et al. Antie will therefore have a polarization function that will return a compass direction toward which it should orient in order to return home to the nest, and a distance function that will return the shortest direct distance. We may assume that this first function will return a direction in degrees, positive or negative, and that the second function will return a distance in centimeters. The first function might look something like this:
            
            // Nest Orient
            // Takes in the polarization sensitive photo diode inputs
            // and returns the location of the nest in degrees.
            int nestOrient(double left_POL_IP, double right_POL_IP) {
            int degrees = 0;
            // Calculates direction of nest, and returns as degrees.
            return degrees;
            } // end nestOrient
            
            The second function, which would return the distance in centimeters, might look something like this:
            
            // Nest Distance
            // Takes in the polarization sensitive photo diode inputs
            // and returns the current distance to the nest.
            int nestDist(double left_POL_IP, double right_POL_IP) {
            int dist = 0;
            // Calculates distance from nest, returning distance in cm.
            return dist;
            } // end nestDist
            
            In-nest navigation will be a function of the temperature, read by Anties thermometer and a light source. To exit, Antie will seek a high temperature until the photoreceptor reaches a threshold of stimulation indicating sunlight, and to get deeper, Antie will seek a lower temperature. The code may look something like this:
            
            // Exit Nest
            // Uses temperature gradient to navigate towards the nest
            // entrance from inside
            
            void nestExit() {
            // Reads temperature, scoots forward 1s, reads temperature
            // again, takes the difference, and determines whether current 
            // heading is increasing temperature reading. If not, rotates // 45 degrees and tries again.
            while(photo_IP < sunrise) {
            double temp = temp_IP;
            while([timer] < 1){
            forCruz(5);
            }
            temp -= temp_IP;
            if(temp>0) rotate(45);
            } // end nestExit
            
            To enter the nest, such as at the end of a task, Antie will perform the same function, except it will seek a lower temperature instead of a higher temperature, it will avoid light, and it will only activate while Antie is less than 10cm from the nest entrance. This void function will be called nestEnter(), and will take in no inputs. 
            To avoid bumping into things (including other ants), Antie be provided with an escape function. Each of Anties eight bump sensors will cause the robot to rotate a different amount, and the sonar will cause it to rotate 90 degrees in the opposite direction. Regardless, this will be a very simple function. I will include one example:
            
            // Escape
            // Escapes from danger when bump sensors or sonar are 
            // activated.
            
            void escape() {
            // Declare and initialize left bump sensors in 
            // order from front to back.
            bump_left1;
            bump_left2;
            bump_left3;
            bump_left4;
            // Declare and initialize right bump sensors in 
            // order from front to back.
            // Sonar sensors are globally declared.
            
            if(bump_left1) {
            // reverse  (at reduced speed)
            forCruz(-3);
            //  and rotate!
            rotate(45);
            }
            } // end escape
            
            Because this function responds to the sensors on Anties around the sides and only its sonar detectors will be able to detect objects in front of it, this escape function will not prevent Antie from being able to locate and pick up objects such as seeds.
            Before picking objects up, however, Antie will need to identify them. This object detection process will be activated when the front bump sensor is stimulated or when both sonar detectors are stimulated. Chemical inputs will be checked to see what this object is most likely to be given its smell. Objects will include midden and food. The code may look something like this:
            
            // Object Identification
            // Identifies an object that has snuck up on the 
            // unsuspecting robot.
            
            void objID() {
            // Declare and initialize front bump sensor.
            // Sonar sensors are globally declared.
            
            // Check inputs to determine which smell is strongest
            // if food smell is detected at higher rate and 
            // above the food threshold for detection, Antie 
            // assumes object is food
            while (bump_front || (sonar_left_IP && sonar_right_IP)) {
            if(((left_midden_IP + right_midden_IP) 
            < ((left_food_IP + right_food_IP))
            && ((left_food_IP + right_food_IP) 
            > food_threshold) {
            food_detect = true;
            }
            // if midden smell is detected at higher rate 
            // and above threshold for midden detection, 
            // Antie assumes object is midden
            else if(((left_midden_IP + right_midden_IP) 
            > ((left_food_IP + right_food_IP))
            && ((left_midden_IP + right_midden_IP) 
            > midden_threshold) {
            midden_detect = true;
            }
            } // end objID
            
            Once the object has been identified, Antie may grip it and lift it. A simple void function grip() taking in no inputs will tighten the grippers until a certain threshold of pressure is reached, at which point the grippers will be lifted for carrying. A void function release() will perform this same action in reverse.
            Antie will also need to follow several different kinds of chemical gradient trails: it will need to track the trails left by successful patrollers, and localize the source of food-odors and midden-odors. Implementations of chemical gradient following robots using two sensors on antennae stalks has been successful in with analog robots in the past (Webb, 1998), regardless of the potential problem of airflow causing a disturbed gradient over evaporating pheromones. As a partial control for the problem of imprecise sensing, a function will perform an analysis of the array information coming on from Anties four sensors on each stalk. The differences between these outputs is what is being compared everywhere there is a left_IP or right_IP. Antie will use the chemical gradient algorithm of Braitenbergs aggressive type 2 vehicle described in his book Vehicles: Experiments in Synthetic Psychology, as this was found through a series of experiments by Russell, et al (2003) to be very efficient when compared to several biomimetic models. Because the same general algorithm will be followed for the localization of all three chemical traces, I will provide pseudocode for only one generic subroutine. Note that a portion of this subroutine does run on a schema basis:
            
            // Follow Gradient
            // Follows a generic chemical gradient, seeking a higher
            // concentration.
            
            void gradientFollow() {
            // Compares left and right inputs and activates opposite
            // motor to a greater degree. 
            if (left_IP > right_IP) {
            [schema] {
            rotate(-90);
            forCruz(5);
            } // end schema
            } // end if
            if (right_IP > left_IP) {
            [schema] {
            rotate(90);
            forCruz(5);
            } // end schema
            } // end if
            else forCruz(5);
            } // end gradientFollow
            
            For the purposes of calls later in the pseudocode, I will refer to these subroutines as trailFollow(), findFood(), and findMidden(). All three are void and take no inputs.
            The final common subroutine will be one for the identification of other ants. When both sonar sensors are stimulated simultaneously, Antie will check hydrocarbon inputs and determine whether the detected object is a nestmate. As harvester ants tend not to engage aggressively with non-nestmates, Antie will only identify other ants as ants if they belong to its nest. Research has shown that red harvester ants may identify the tasks nestmates are engaged in based on the ratio of n-alkenes to n-alkanes in their hydrocarbons and the presence or absence of branched n-alkanes. The difference in ratio is caused by the time ants spend outside in the sun, which depletes their n-alkene levels. Antie will attempt to determine the tasks of other ants by sensing only the n-alkene levels. The code will be similar to the object identification subroutine and may look something like this:
            
            // Ant Identification
            // Identifies an ant that has snuck up on the 
            // unsuspecting robot.
            
            void antID() {
            while (left_sonar_IP && right_sonar_IP) {
            // Are hydrocarbons present? (Is this a nestmate?)
            if((left_hydrocarb_IP + right_hydrocarb_IP)
            > hydrocarb_threshold) {
            nestmate_detect = true;
            // In what task is the nestmate engaged?
            if (n-alkene level is appropriate for a forager) {
            forager_detect = true;
            }
            if (n-alkene level is appropriate for a patroller) {
            patroller_detect = true;
            }
            if (n-alkene level is appropriate for a midden worker) {
            midworker_detect = true;
            } // If not midden work, foraging or patrolling, ignore
            } // If not nestmate, ignore
            }
            } // end antID
            
            Using these basic common behaviors, more complex behaviors may be coded.
            Red harvester ants do not retain one task throughout their lifespan, but instead change their behaviors as is appropriate for the colony (Gordon, 1996). Research has shown that red harvester ants switch tasks partially as a function of age (ex., Ingram, et al, 2005) and partially as a function of interactions with other workers (ex., Schafer et al, 2006; Gordon, 2002; Greene & Gordon, 2007). Younger ants work more inside the nest, and older ants work more outside the nest. As a result, I will model the three main behaviors in the order that they are to be engaged in. Midden work, which consists of moving dirt between the inside of the nest and the outside, will occur first; patrolling, which involves a shorter overall amount of time spent outside, will occur second; and foraging will be the final behavior. Finally, I will discuss a main method encoding the task switching between these behaviors.
            The midden work behavior will be Anties default initial behavior. It will be initiated in the morning by the sunrise, and will continue until the outside temperature reaches 52oC, at which point all red harvester ants must return to the nest. As previously stated, a midden worker must identify midden, grasp it, and carry it to the surface, depositing it halfway down the mound before returning to collect more midden. A program encoding this behavior might look like this:
            
            //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
            // MIDDEN WORK
            //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
            // Antie will leave nest in the morning after sunrise,
            // carrying bits of midden halfway down the nest mound
            // and depositing them. Antie will return to the nest and
            // repeat this task until the temperature reaches above
            // 52 degrees Celsius.
            
            void midden() {
            
            // Initiated by sunrise, stopped by temperature
            while (photo_IP > sunrise && temp_IP < 52) {
            // Find midden and identify any found objects. If
            // they are midden, grip and carry outside nest.
            findMidden();
            objID();
            if(midden_detect) {
            grip();
            nestExit();
            // cruise to halfway down the nest mound
            while(nestDistance() < 25) {
            forCruz();
            }
            release();
            // reset midden_detect
            midden_detect = 0;
            nestEnter();
            } // end if
            } // end while
            } // end midden
            
            The second behavior, patrolling, involves two sub-behaviors: nest patrolling and trail patrolling. Nest patrolling will involve leaving the nest, roaming around on the nest mound for a few minutes, and reentering the nest. This behavior will be implemented in two parts, with a task-switching algorithm based on age. Research shows that ants do change their behaviors based partly on their perceived life expectancy (Moron, et al, 2007), and that task-switching is partly genetically controlled by a switch in gene expression as the individual ages (Ingram, et al, 2005). It is therefore reasonable to assign a constant age at which Antie will switch from nest patrolling to trail patrolling. In order to perform both of these functions, Antie will need a subroutine to explore in a zig-zag fashion, as harvester ants do (Gordon, 34). Harvester ants display a preference to wander in familiar territory, though foragers and patrollers do sometimes wander into other nests territories (Gordon, 57-60). To control for this behavior, Anties explore subroutine will display a preference for exploration in places where there is a low gradient of nestmate pheromones. This model is reasonable because patrollers and foragers change their explored territory from day to day, even though they do retain some more commonly chosen paths (Gordon, 45). The code may look something like this:
            
            // Explore
            // Takes in desired distance from nest to explore 
            // in cm and moves in a slightly randomized zigzag 
            // pattern
            
            void explore(int distance, int time) {
            // Local Variables
            int time=0; // integer representing the time to 
             // wander one direction
            int angle=0; // integer representing number of 
             // degrees to rotate
            int dir=0; // integer representing the direction to 
             // turn (0=right, 1=left)
            
            // Random number generator to add a bit of wanderlust
            RandomGenerator rGen = new RandomGenerator();
            
            // While loop; robot will keep zigging and zagging 
            // for a set amount of time
            while ([timer] < time) {
            if (ant's distance from nest < distance) {
            // int time gets a random number of seconds 
            // between 3 and 10
            time = rGen.nextInt(3,10);
            // int angle gets a random number of degrees 
            // between 15 and 75
            angle = rGen.nextInt(15,75);
            
            // function call to rotation subroutine
            // if dir is 0, rotate to the right; if dir 
            // is 1, rotate to the left.
            if (dir==0) {
            dir = 1; // dir changes direction- turn 
             // left next time
            rotate(angle); // rotate to the right
            } else {
            dir = 0; // dir changes direction- turn 
             // right next time
            rotate(-angle); // rotate to the left
            } // end rotation call
            
            // while loop to count down number of seconds 
            // using a timer
            while ( [timer] < time) {
            // command to go forward is given
            goForward = 1;
            // call to forward cruise function; 
            // straight cruise
            forCruz(5,5);
            } // end timer while loop
            } // end distance from nest while loop
            // if ant is approaching the desired distance,
            // double back (at angle) to explore more!
            if (ant's distance from nest ==
            distance - some small constant) {
            rotate(135);
            } // end if
            // Avoid leaving nest territory
            else if (nestmate pheromones IP < very low threshold) {
            while([short timer]) {
            forCruz(5); // explore a bit further
            } // end while
            rotate(45);
            } // end if
            } // end if (distance from nest < distance)
            } // end explore
            
            Nest patrollers will only call this behavior for a short distance before returning to the nest to idle for a few minutes and exit again. Trail patrollers will go much further, until food sources are found, and will then orient towards the nest and create trails for the foragers to follow. A general site of food is all that the patroller need find; the foragers will dig through the sand for the food. Code for the patrolling behavior might look like this (note that part is on a schema basis):
            
            /////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
            // PATROLLING
            /////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
            //
            // Main patrolling behavior function.
            // Includes nest patrolling, trail patrolling and the
            // stimulation and thresholds to initiate and switch between
            // the two.
            
            // Nest Patrolling
            // Patrollers' first job of the day: exit the nest and
            // explore the nest mound, taking measurements.
            void nestPatrol() {
            while (photo_IP > [light at sunrise]
            && temp_IP < 52 degrees Celsius ) {
            nestExit();
            // Nest mounds are generally up to 1m across
            // Thus, explore in a 50cm radius (Gordon, 6)
            explore(50, 120);
            [schema] {
            rotate(nestOrient());
            forCruz(5);
            nestEnter();
            }
            wait a short time
            } // end if
            } // end nestPatrol
            
            // Trail Patrolling
            // Patrollers exit nest and attempt to find food. Once food
            // is found, they mark a trail leading back to it while
            // taking the most efficient route home.
            void trailPatrol() {
            while (photo_IP > [light at sunrise]
            && temp_IP < 52 degrees Celsius ) {
            nestExit();
            // Explore no further than about 15m from nest, for no
            // more than 20 minutes
            if (food_IP > some low threshold){
            findFood();
            if (food_detect) {
            [schema] {
            rotate(nestOrient());
            forCruz(5);
            spray successful patroller pheromone
            nestEnter();
            }
            wait a short time
            }
            }
            else {
            explore(1500, 20 * 60);
            [schema] {
            rotate(nestOrient());
            forCruz(5);
            nestEnter();
            }
            wait a short time
            }
            } // end if
            } // end trailPatrol
            
            For the task-switching in the patrolling behavior, assume some variable age that Antie has been keeping track of using the CPUs clock pulses to track the time since its last bootup. The integers nestpatrol_age and trailpatrol_age will represent the ages at which it is appropriate to switch to these tasks.
            
            // PATROLLING
            // Task-switching hierarchy for the two types of patrolling
            void patrol() {
            while (age > nestpatrol_age && age < trailpatrol_age) {
            nestPatrol();
            }
            while (age > trailpatrol_age && age < forage_age) {
            trailPatrol();
            }
            }
            
            The final behavior, foraging, will involve one extra subroutine that will employ an algorithm designed by R. Andrew Russell to localize an object through sand based on a chemical plume. This will emulate the digging that foragers must often do in order to locate seeds, and will enable Antie to accurately retrieve seeds for its host nest. This algorithm will keep track of the last two intensities of the desired chemical input and compare them. It would also keep track of whether the last rotation was clockwise or counter-clockwise. The code for this, adapted from Russells paper, might look like this:
            
            // Hex-path search
            // Localizes an object through sand using chemical detection
            void hexSearch() {
            double intense1 = inensity at n-1;
            double intense2 = intensity at n-2;
            while (nothing in grippers) {
            if (((intense2 > intense 1)
            && last rotation was counterclockwise)
            ||
            (((intense2 < intense1)
            && last rotation was clockwise)) {
            rotate(-60);
            while([short timer]) {
            forCruz(5);
            }
            } // end if
            else {
            rotate(60);
            while([short timer]) {
            forCruz(5);
            } // end while
            } // end else
            } // end while
            } // end hexSearch
            
            Foragers will follow trails marked by patrollers to their conclusion before collecting food to bring back to the nest, even if more tantalizing food presents itself in their path (Gordon, 47). To address this, a strict subsumption hierarchy will make sure that the foragers do not stop to collect food too soon. The code might look like this:
            
            /////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
            // FORAGING
            /////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
            //
            // Main foraging behavior function.
            // Foragers will exit the nest upon activation and follow
            // a trail laid by the patrollers. Upon completion of the
            // trail-following, will locate and grip food, returning
            // to the nest. Boolean forage_today represents Anties
            // activation status for each day once it has switched to 
            // the foraging behavior.
            
            void forage() {
            // Wait for a successful patroller to return.
            if (sucpat_detect) forage_today = true;
            while (forage_today && temp_IP < 52) {
            nestExit();
            trailFollow(); // Follow successful patroller trail.
            // Note that this is NOT a schema basis, which would 
            // cause Antie to stop and retrieve food encountered en 
            // route.
            // When end of plume is reached, retrieve food.
            while (!food_detect) {
            // while food has not yet been found, continue searching 
            // and identifying found objects
            hexSearch();
            objID();
            }
            // Once that loop has been broken, return to nest
            [schema] {
            // grip food and return to nest
            grip();
            rotate(nestOrient());
            forCruz(5);
            nestEnter();
            }
            // release food just inside nest entrance
            release();
            } // end while
            } // end forage
            
            Of course, what makes Antie an innovative robot is the task-switching between these larger behaviors. Because the midden work behavior is Anties initial default behavior, I will not address task switching to midden work. Workers probably switch to patrolling based on their perceived life expectancy and as a function of a gene whose expression changes between young and old ants, and this is easily emulated using a clock pulse counter in Anties CPU that will count its age since last boot. To remind the reader, this technique was implemented earlier in this proposal to create the limited task-switching between nest patrolling and trail patrolling. The switch from patrolling to foraging has been modeled as a function of successful foragers returns with great accuracy by Schafer, et al (2006), and evidence from experiments in which successful foragers were removed before reentry to the nest does support the theory that returning successful foragers have an effect on the activation of new foragers (Gordon, 2002). Activated foragers form a queue to exit the nest and exit at a steady rate. According to Schafers, et al. model of forager activation, every time a successful forager returns and no foragers are currently in line to exit, a fraction (modeled at 0.0035) of inactive foragers joins the queue. For the purposes of modeling Antie, I will assume that the switches between these behaviors are permanent, irreversible and partly a function of age, with new foragers being activated by returning successful foragers. The code to model this task-switching might look something like this:
            
            /////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
            // TASK-SWITCHING
            /////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
            //
            // Main function of Anties software. Examines the task-
            // switching criteria and determines when Antie will perform 
            // what behavior. Int age is an integer representing the
            // time since Anties last boot, corresponding to the age
            // of an ant being simulated. Int nestpatrol_age refers to the 
            // starting age at which Antie will begin to nest patrol; 
            // forage_age refers to the starting age at which Antie may be 
            // activated to forage. This would correspond to the change in 
            // gene expression described by Gordon (2002).
            
            main() {
            // default to midden work
            while (age < nestpatrol_age) {
            midden();
            } // end while
            // switch to patrolling behavior based on age
            while (nestpatrol_age < age && age < forage_ave) {
            patrol();
            } // end while
            // switch to foraging as a function of time, but 
            // remain inactive until stimulated by returning 
            // successful foragers
            // Assume that inactive foragers will not smell different 
            // from patrollers, which was their last task, because 
            // they have not yet spent sufficient time in the sun.
            if (sucfor_detect at time n-1 == false 
            && sucfor_detect at time n == 1) {
            0.0035 probability: forage_active = true;
            }
            
            while (age > forage_age && forage_active) {
            forage();
            }
            } // end main
            
            
            Conclusion
            
            Antie will be a fully autonomous, situated and embodied agent, infiltrating a red harvester ant colony and providing valuable information not only about the hypothesized rules of these ants behaviors and their task-switching thresholds, but also about the combination of complex behaviors into a single autonomous system with the ability to switch between behaviors as necessary. Biomimetic robots have long been a rich source of information for both biologists and robotics engineers, and complex robots that can switch tasks as the situation demands and communicate information about current tasks could be useful for further studies of complex robot behaviors as well as for the obvious practical applications of robot swarms, such as on the battlefield and standard building maintenance.
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            REFERENCES
            
            Braitenberg, V. Vehicles: Experiments in Synthetic Psychology. MIT Press: Cambridge, MA, 1984.
            
            Gordon, D.M., & Greene, M.J. Cuticular hydrocarbons inform task decisions. Nature 32 (2003).
            
            Gordon, D.M. The regulation of foraging activity in red harvester ant colonies. American Naturalist 159, 509-518 (2002).
            
            Gordon, Deborah. Ants at Work: How an Insect Society is Organized. Norton: New York, NY, 2000.
            
            Gordon, D.M. The organization of work in social insect colonies. Nature 380, 121-124 (1996).
            
            Greene, M.J., & Gordon, D.M. Interaction rate informs harvester ant task decisions. Behavioral Ecology: Advance Access, published January 22, 2007.
            
            Halloy, J., Sempo, G., Caprari, G., Rivault, C., Asadpour, M., Tache, F., Said, I., Durier, V., Canonge, S., Ame, J.M., Detrain, C., Correl, N., Matrinoli, A., Mondala, F., Siegwart, R., & Deneubourg, J.L. Social integration of robots into groups of cockroaches to control self-organized choices. Science 318, 1155-1158 (2007).
            
            Holldobler, B., & Wilson, E.O. (1990). The ants. Berlin: Springer-Verlag. As cited in Webb, B. Robots, crickets and ants: models of neural control of chemotaxis and phonotaxis. Neural Networks 11, 1479-1496 (1998).
            
            Ingram, K.K., Oefner, P., & Gordon, D.M. Task-specific expression of the foraging gene in harvester ants. Molecular Ecology 14, 813-818 (2005).
            
            Ishida, H., Nakamoto, T., Moriizumi, T., Kikas, T., & Janata, J. Biol. Bull 200, 222-226 (2001).
            Labhart, T., & Meyer, E.P. Neural mechanisms in insect navigation: polarization compass and odometer. Current Opinion in Neurobiology 12, 707-714 (2002).
            
            Lambrinos, D., Moller, R., Labhart, T., Pfeifer, R., & Wehner, Rudiger. A mobile robot employing insect strategies for navigation. Robotics and Autonomous Systems 30, 39-64 (2000).
            
            Moron, D., Witek, M., & Woychiechowski, M., Division of labor among workers with different life expectancy in the ant Myrmica scabrinodis. Association for the Study of Animal Behavior (2007), doi:10.1016/j.anbehav.2007.06.005.
            
            Peterson, R.R., Schubert, D.W., & Cholakis, P.N. "Tactile sensors for robot gripper and the like." U.S. Patent 4,492,949. 8 January 1985.
            
            Russell, R.A. Chemical source location and the RoboMole project. Intelligent Robotics Research Centre, Monash University, Clayton, Australia. Contact: andy.russell@eng.monash.edu.au
            
            Russel, R.A., Bab-Hadiashar, A., Shepherd, R.L., & Wallace, G.G. A comparison of reactive robot chemotaxis algorithms. Robotics and Autonomous Systems 45, 83-97 (2003).
            
            Schafer, R.J., Holmes, S., & Gordon, D.M. Forager activation and food availability in harvester ants. Animal Behavior 71, 815-822 (2006).
            
            Webb, B. Robots, crickets and ants: models of neural control of chemotaxis and phonotaxis. Neural Networks 11, 1479-1496 (1998).
            
         
    
      
   

   
      
         
            
            May 18, 2006
            ANTH 250
            Prof. Tavrez
            
            Indigenous Revitalization Movements of Latin America: 
            The Rediscovery of Language and Identity
            Humans, in the process of defining themselves, look to immediately recognizable factors in order to differentiate themselves from others. This process leads to the development of what can be broadly termed culture: a group of people joined by characteristics, traits, and beliefs comes to view themselves as sharing a distinct identity, discernible from that of those outside them, those who do not belong. Naturally this can be signaled by any number of things - clothing, food, lifestyle choices. One of the most dominant and easily noted factors is language. The command of a language, while not affording guaranteed access to the community which speaks it, is often the key to gaining entry. In turn communal identity can be formed around a language; it is used as the focal point around which the group gathers. Therefore when considering the indigenous revitalization movements which began in 20th century Latin America, the impact of those indigenous languages on those movements and the nature of the identity of the peoples themselves is key. Language plays a complex and integral role in the development and redefinition of an identity, particularly when that identity has been oppressed and subsumed by a dominant other for as long as that of the indigenous peoples in Latin America has. In particular I will examine two divergent yet remarkably parallel cases, that of the Maya in Guatemala and the Nasa and Guambiano peoples of Colombia. Their struggle to attain status in societies still bearing the marks of Spanish colonialism is deeply tied to their struggle to reaffirm the nature of their indigenous identity, and is in turn linked to the interaction of Spanish and their native languages.
            The effects of Spanish colonialism are both far-reaching and deeply embedded in both countries. One of the most prominent, lasting influences is that of the land grant system. Initially the Spanish government attempted to instate the encomienda system, in which a conquistador maintained direct control over the indigenous peoples and their land. This was in turn replaced by the repartimento; the natives were allowed to maintain control over their land and their laws but remained in every way the inferior of the Spanish, providing labor and taxes as demanded. In reality land ownership rights were the exclusive right of the Spanish, resulting in modern-day malappropriation of land ownership in the hands of the descendants of the Spanish colonialists (Warren 1978, 7-8). Indigenous peoples are commonly sharecroppers or migrant workers. The impoverished plight of the native populations was first recognized by the Marxist movements of the early 20th century. Those were the first to articulate the necessity of affirming the independent identity of the indigenous populations; previously, both the left and right maintained a belief in indigenous assimilation into the dominant Spanish culture. The Marxists, on the contrary, argued that the indigenous peoples possessed a unique identity. However, they also claimed that they were part of a larger group, the working class, whose poverty was a direct result of American imperialism; therefore they should join these new popular leftist movements in order to reorganize society into a worker-friendly one (Jackson 1995: 6-7). 
            In Colombia this resulted in a civil war between the Liberal and Communist parties and Conservative party. A truce established between the Liberals and Conservatives failed to meet the demands of the Communists, who in turn sustained guerrilla attacks in response. Guerrilla warfare has since become a part of Colombian life; multiple groups maintain an ongoing presence, often stationing themselves in the remote mountainous villages often populated by various indigenous peoples. This is similar to the situation of Guatemala: the government felt it needed to battle communism, an armed and dangerous menace within, plunging the country into civil warfare in the 1960s and continuing through the 1980s (Warren 1993: 25). This resulted in persecution against the Mayans, who make up about 60% of the overall population. In both counties, guerrillas were often associated with the native peoples; in many cases there were coalitions, but in others the guerrillas merely used the remote, inaccessible villages as hideouts. In Guatemala over 450 villages were destroyed, 200,000 Mayans were killed, and over 1 million more were displaced. The main guerrilla force was demilitarized in 1996 with the establishment of a peace accord (Warren 2002: 157-158).
            The growth in popularity and militarism of these popular leftist movements is intertwined with the development of the indigenous revitalization movements. By the 1970s the need to assert a cause separate from the general left was seen, and indigenous rights movements formed (Warren 2003: 174, Jackson 2002: 82). Central to these was the question of indigenous identity: largely lost amidst the overwhelming Spanish influence, local leaders sought to rediscover their native roots and redefine what it meant to be a part of indigenous culture. Pan-Mayanism in particular has sought to organize itself around the Mayan language; despite local dialectical differences, it is seen as the unifying force behind the diverse Mayan people. Most still speak it in various forms, and efforts by Mayan linguists to standardize the language are producing a coherent, modern version of Maya (England 2003: 733, 739). Pan-Mayanism has succeeded in part due to its focus on issues of ethnicity; it largely avoids specifically political overtones, instead concentrating on the development of the reemerging Mayan culture (England 2003: 734). The popular left, however, continues to see the rhetoric of ethnic rights as a politically viable tool. It therefore often invokes the banner of indigenous rights in its own discourse . The Pan-Mayan movement thus benefits from the lasting influence of the popular left on Guatemalan governmental policies without risking drawing the (often negative) attention of the government (England 2003: 735, Warren 2003: 181). A main concern among pan-Mayanists is the reversal of the long-seated inferiority complex of the Mayan people; despite their position as majority within the Guatemalan population, they remain impoverished and marginalized on the fridge of society. This results in part from the ingrained influences of Spanish colonialism: Spanish continues to be associated with modernity and social mobility, whereas Maya is seen as backward and inferior. Pan-Mayan leaders therefore seek to develop a return to Maya as it was in its classical renaissance, a language of power and prestige (England 2003: 736). By doing so they hope to inculcate among the Mayan peoples a renewed sense of pride which will in turn reverse the dogma of Spanish superiority.
            Colombia, in contrast, has no unified "pan-Indian" sentiments; the indigenous population is a small fraction of the overall population, a fractured entity divided by region and language. Several competing and oftentimes conflicting indigenous rights advocacy groups have developed: the ONIC poses itself as the sole pan-Indian group, yet lacks legitimacy in the eyes of many indigenous peoples (Jackson 2002: 83, 85). The CRIC, which focuses on language development and renewal, is primarily representative of the Nasa peoples (Jackson 2003: 82). It often stands in conflict with the AICO, its Guambiano counterpart (Jackson 2003: 83-84). Whereas the Mayanists benefit from a single main identity, those of Colombia must operate under historical differences between the various ethnic groups (Jackson 2002: 109). The Nasa and Guambiano have stood in opposition since pre-colonial times; therefore any coalition between the two advocacy groups is tenuous at best (Rappaport 2005: 2). This reflects a desire among the peoples themselves to maintain distinct ethnic identities, both from the Spanish Colombian population and each other. In the 1990s the rhetoric of "cultural diversity" was picked up the Colombian media, and subsequently entered the consciousness of the greater metropolitan public, thereby cementing its place in Colombian society as necessity and further complicating the role of indigenous movements in gaining rights for indigenous peoples as a whole.
            A major success in the Colombian saga is the revamped constitution of 1991, which includes a section on indigenous rights, as the Congress which drafted it included representatives from native groups (Gow and Rappaport 2002: 57). Central is a return to the old land grant system stemming from the repartimentos of the colonial era along with judicial sovereignty. While the repartimento was originally used to repress the indigenous groups, it is now used to support them: resguardos, or communally owned plots of land, are granted to communities. They are ruled by the cabildo, local governing boards formed of community leaders (Gow and Rappaport 2002: 51-52). The return to customary law reflects a substantial shift in indigenous identity: no longer ruled by Western laws and discourse, communities are forced to assess the efficacy of their old judicial systems in light of the modern era. The oral nature of jurisprudence directly conflicts with the desire of the Colombian government to codify law, and questions of human rights violations are common as punishments are often corporal in nature (Gow and Rappaport 2002: 57-58).
            The Colombian constitution stands in stark contrast to the failure of the Guatemalan indigenous rights referendum of 1999. Mayans gained formal recognition in 1995 as the majority population in a precursor to the 1996 peace accord; by 1999 its government floated a referendum on an indigenous bill of rights resembling that codified in the Colombian constitution (Warren 2002: 157-158). It failed, despite the Mayan majority; possible reasons include the overwhelming illiteracy rates among the indigenous population and inaccessibility of voting stations (Warren 2002: 149, 151). However, it reflects on a greater level both the desire of many Mayans to assimilate, as they still feel that is necessary for social mobility, and a belief among the general population that Mayans do not require a separate bill of rights as they are covered under the general rights already in the constitution (Warren 2002: 159, 172). Illiteracy rates are in fact correlated with the Mayan language itself: those who speak Spanish are more likely to be literate than those who speak Mayan alone (England 2003: 733). Nonetheless, in 2003 the legislature passed the law of national languages, which while reaffirming Spanish as the official language, recognizes the importance of indigenous languages as part of national identity and encourages their active promotion. While largely symbolic, it is still significant in that Guatemalan identity is seen as encompassing languages other than Spanish.
            This question of identity as defined by language manifests differently in Guatemala and Colombia. Within the pan-Mayan movement, there remains a desire to maintain linguistic diversity: some view the reduction of their language to the status of "dialect" devalues their unique identity and place in the Mayan world; however, despite differences over standardization, the pan-Mayan movement itself is largely cohesive. In contrast, Colombian indigenous groups are divided to the extent that linguistic diversity is not only valued, but serves to split the population, both between groups and within groups themselves. An example is the Tukanoans: while considered a single ethnic group, they maintain 16 distinct language groups and practice linguistic exogamy, in which members of one language group must marry into another (Jackson 1995: 4). 
            Language further works to establish identity by encapsulating a worldview markedly removed from that of the dominant Western culture. Indigenous cosmology, or cosmovision, is difficult to translate into Romanticized languages; it maintains a concept of culture, defined as the form of behavior resulting from a permanent harmonic relationship with Nature (Gow and Rappaport 2002: 58) and view of history as cyclic that is often at odds with Western modes of thought. Conflict between cultures arise as cosmovision is rediscovered and developed, often by native shamans in tandem with indigenous leaders aided by outside researchers and non-governmental organizations. The differences between Western and native perceptions then lead to conflict within the revitalization movements themselves: the question of embracing Western law and discourse is continually grappled with. It is necessary to work within the national legal system in order to gain policy reform beyond the local level; however, with widely differing concepts of justice a a balance is difficult to achieve. Customary law in Colombia contrasts with Western law as it maintains a different perception of casual relationships: tying back to the indigenous concept of harmony, crimes are viewed as imbalances in the community's harmony and can often be traced back to those who did not perpetuate the crime, but may have influenced the accused to do so. When a punishment - often public and corporal in nature - is carried out, the group feels the effects as a whole. Shamans often sit with the criminal as he fills his sentence, sharing in their ordeal. (Rappaport 2005) Once punishments are completed, the criminal is seen as rehabilitated, having fulfilled his duty to restore harmonic order, and is welcomed back into the community (Gow and Rappaport 2002: 61, Rappaport 2005: 97).
            Translation of law into native languages has proved to be a difficult task, as Western ideas often have no parallel in indigenous cosmovision. The translation of the Colombian constitution sparked the development of neologisms, as the goal of the translators was not to provide a direct translation of the constitution, but to recapture its spirit in a native, rather than Western discourse (Gow and Rappaport 2002: 58-59). This provides a second interpretation of law distinct from that of the Spanish Colombian culture, and in turn an interpretation aligned with native ideology for the cabildos to follow when governing (Rappaport 2005: 93, 236). Translation fulfills another vital role, as it is employed in the rediscovery of the indigenous identity itself. Workshops and advocacy groups regularly work to translate native histories back into native forms of knowledge, distancing them from the Western influences that have invaded over the past six centuries. The Guambiano history project charts native history as the outward spiraling events which are both cyclic and parallel in nature; Mayan historians translate and document oral histories whose legacy is in danger of being forgotten (Rappaport 2005: 165).
            This attempt to regain identity via translation is indicative of the intimate relationship between indigenous revitalization within a modern context and native language use. Difficulties arise, however, as conflicts between the traditional and modern and native languages and Spanish develop. Many native peoples in Colombia are monolingual Spanish speakers, raising the question of the practicality of indigenous language use. The differences between cosmovision in Spanish and indigenous languages are great, leading to the difficulty of governing in Spanish yet embracing indigenous mode of thought. In addition, there exists a complex relationship between what are perceived as different levels of indigenous identity; the Nasa, for example, divide themselves into the traditional, modern, and new. The authenticity of the modern Nasa, who are often metropolitan Spanish speakers attempting to reconnect with their roots, is brought into question by the traditional, who speak Nasa Yuwe and lead a rural existence(Rappaport 2005). In Guatemala the fact remains that Spanish is the gateway to social mobility; years of conflict and refugee status have established the desire to leave a rural way of life for an updated urban one, and those literate in Spanish have the tools to do so. Illiteracy and poverty is associated with Maya; thus there is the conflict between the desire to recapture the unique Mayan identity via the language and the need to improve living conditions, which most often occurs under Spanish influence.
            A further complication is the necessity of establishing authentic Indianness, both in the eyes of fellow indigenous peoples and the outside Spanish culture. The ONIC of Colombia lacks legitimacy precisely because it is perceived as not Indian enough; it embraces the use of Spanish and Western discourse, leading to distrust among indigenous peoples (Jackson 2002: 85). Politicians make a point of appearing in their native dress and speaking in their native language in assembly, even if they are more at home in a business suit and speaking Spanish; indigenous identity has become a calling card to the extent that at times it appears to be a caricature of itself. The Colombian constitution is problematic in that it provides little guide as to what exactly forms an indigenous group; the concept of culture is so complex and divergent that establishing self-determination in the eyes of the Colombian government requires emphasizing differences. Efforts towards development, then, cannot endanger traditional culture and values, for fear of losing cultural legitimacy (Jackson 1995: 5). There develops a duality in native culture; for example, many Nasa children receive instruction in Nasa Yuwe yet converse in Spanish outside the classroom. An emphasis on preserving, rather than practicing, native culture arises: indigenous authenticity is maintained by sustaining knowledge of traditional practices and beliefs without fully embracing them on a day-to-day basis (Gow and Rappaport 2002: 66-67).
             This intersection of language and indigenous identity poses challenges which have yet to be fully addressed. In Guatemala, they are largely comprised of the conflict between poverty and progress; the pan-Mayan movement must meet the dual trials of establishing a positive identity within the Mayan population itself and legitimacy in the legal and political arenas in order to gain policy reforms and codified rights in law. In Colombia, legal successes have often come about due to the Colombian government's recognition of the political viability of the rhetoric of indigenous rights; by granting indigenous peoples judicial sovereignty they hope to win the trust of a people who view the government as incapable of protecting them from the ongoing civil strife, and by giving them blocks of land they hope that the indigenous community will be able to keep out drug traffickers and guerrillas where the government itself has not (Jackson 1995: 8). Regardless of the ulterior motives behind their legal status, indigenous peoples in Colombia now possess the rights to teach and govern in their own languages according to their own laws (Jackson 1995: 5). Conflicts arise due to internal differences and the ever-persist problem of defining indigenous identity and authenticity in a pluralistic linguistic environment.
            Works Cited
            Gow, David D. and Joanne Rappaport. 2002. The Indigenous Public Voice: The Multiple Idioms of Modernity. in Indigenous Movements, Self-Representation, and the State in Latin America. Kay B. Warren and Jean E. Jackson, ed. Pp.47-80. Austin: University of Texas Press.
            
            England, Nora C. 2003. Mayan Language Revival and Revitalization Politics: Linguists and Linguistic Ideologies. American Ethnologist 105(4):733-743.
            
            Jackson, Jean E. 1995. Culture, Genuine and Spurious: The Politics of Indianness in the Vaupes, Colombia. American Ethnologist 22(1):3-27.
            
            ibid. 2002. Contested Discourses of Authority in Colombian National Indigenous Politics: The 1996 Summer Takeovers. in Indigenous Movements, Self-Representation, and the State in Latin America. Kay B. Warren and Jean E. Jackson, ed. Pp.81-122. Austin: University of Texas Press.
            
            Rappaport, Joanne. 2005. Intercultural Utopias. Durham: Duke University Press.
            
            Warren, Kay B. 1978. The Symbolism of Subordination. Austin: University of Texas Press.
            
            ibid. 1993. La Violencia in Guatemala. in The Violence Within. Kay B. Warren, ed. Pp. 25-56. Boulder: Westview Press.
            
            ibid. 2002. Voting Against Indigenous Rights in Guatemala: Lessons from the 1996 Referendum. in Indigenous Movements, Self-Representation, and the State in Latin America. Kay B. Warren and Jean E. Jackson, ed. Pp.149-180. Austin: University of Texas Press.
            
            ibid. 2003. Pan-Mayan Activism in Guatemala. in Contemporary Indigenous Movements in Latin America. Erick D. Langer and Elena Munoz, ed. Pp. 169-184. Wilmington: Scholarly Resources.
            
            
            
            
            
         
      
   

   
      
         
            Tonal Structure and Form in Bartks Concerto for Orchestra (I)
            Drew F. Nobile
            University of Washington
            Before beginning an analysis of any piece by Bla Bartk, one must first decide to what degree tonal analysis will be used. Bartks music, although it is often difficult to call completely tonal, never entirely sheds itself of tonal elements and structure. This remains true even with one of his last compositions, the Concerto for Orchestra, written two years before his death in 1943. The discussion that follows analyzes the first movement of the Concerto, focusing on the tonal structures at play throughout the movement. The analysis will treat the movement tonally, investigating the progression of local tonics and its relationship to the overall form. We will also examine to what degree a tonal reading of this movement is limited in its analytical potential in an attempt to pinpoint exactly where Bartk strays from common-practice compositional techniques.
            Harmonic Structure and Form
            Bartk describes the form of the first movement as more or less regular sonata form.
                  Bartk, 431.
                While that does not seem to be a meaningful assertion, it is perfectly accurate: the movement is in sonata form, but there is an introduction that does not relate thematically to any other parts of the movement (not unheard of in Mozart sonatas), and the recapitulation presents the two themes of the exposition in reverse order. The backwards recapitulation is a technique that Bartk employs frequently because of the formal symmetry it creates.
                  For example, the fifth string quartet. Also see Bartks comments on that (Bartk, 414).
                Example 1 shows a diagram of the form of the movement; the symmetry is apparent within the seven sections following the introduction. As the example shows, the development section is divided into three subsections; the first and third subsections draw their thematic material from the first theme group, and the second subsection involves new material not drawn from the exposition. Hence, on either side of the middle section of the development we have the alternation FTG-STG-FTG which makes the overall form, with the exception of the Introduction, symmetric.
                  Paul Wilson also discusses the inherent symmetry of the movement, although his interpretation is somewhat different. See Wilson, 168-170.
               
            
            || Intro | FTG | STG | Dev I (FTG) | Dev II (new) | Dev III (FTG) | STG | FTG ||
                  The abbreviations FTG and STG stand for First Theme Group and Second Theme Group, respectively.
               
            
            example 1: formal structure of the first movement
            Sonata formor, more-or-less sonata formcarries harmonic as well as formal connotations. While tonality in this piece (and in Bartks music in general) is quite different from its classical interpretation, we find that the harmonic structure is at least analogous to the standard sonata-form structure. To begin with, the movement is in F. When we say in F, we do not imply F major (or minor, for that matter)the major/minor tonal system in general does not apply to this piecebut rather that the pitch-class F is the tonal center of the movement, and acts analogously to the tonic in a Mozartian sonata movement. Using this interpretation, we can map out the local tonics (tonal centers) used throughout the movement, as shown in Example 2.
            
               
            
            example 2: harmonic structure of the first movement
            In this example, the barlines divide the formal sections of the piece (IntroductionExpositionDevelopmentRecapitulation)so we can immediately see that the tonic F is not established until the exposition begins. Beginning with the exposition, the large-scale progression of tonal centers is a whole-tone descent from F to F, represented by the stemmed notes in Example 2, while the Introduction ascends from C to F through D (shown as D and E in the graph) in a quasi-bass Anstieg. The middle pitch of the descent, B, acts as the dominant to F, based on its symmetrical division of the whole-tone scale and the fact that the second theme appears in B in the exposition. Bartk has often applied a tonic-dominant relationship to a pitch-class and its tritone partner, and even admits to using that as a compositional framework in his fifth string quartet.
                  See Bartk, 414-415.
                In this particular movement, Bartk feigns moving to the tonal dominant, C, for the second theme before reinterpreting C as a chromatic passing tone between D and Bthis and other subtleties shown in Example 2 will be explained in detail in later sections.
            
               
            
            Paul Wilson gives a detailed account of the foreground activity throughout this movement in his analysis; we do not seek to duplicate or substitute for his findings. Our analysis will focus instead on relating the foreground activity to the overarching background structure. The graph in Example 2 will serve as a point of departure for the subsequent analysis; while we will periodically refer back to some of its specific elements, it should be understood that even when not explicitly referenced, this graph serves as the explanatory goal of this paper.
            The Introduction
            As Paul Wilson points out, the title Introduzione given to the movement as a whole seems to apply only to the first 75 measures.
                  Wilson, 172.
                The Introduction does not relate thematically to any of the main sections of the movementin fact, it is the third movement that draws its thematic material from this sectionbut the harmonic and motivic principles at play here foreshadow some important elements of the entire piece. To begin with, the opening motive in the celli and basses, shown in Example 3, outlines a pentatonic set and strongly presents C as the tonal center. The pentatonic set here is exclusively a pitch-class set, and its incarnations throughout the movement are devoid of any connotations associated with the pentatonic scale. Indeed, this set can be seen more as a by-product of stacked perfect fourths than a generative element itself. The perfect fourth in fact generates much of the motivic and harmonic material of the entire movement, and its importance is immediately evident in the Introduction with the opening bass motive. Furthermore, the following two instances of this opening motive, shown in Examples 4 and 5, remove any doubt as to the motivic importance of the perfect fourth, and in turn diminish the importance of the pentatonic set.
            
               
            
            example 3: measures 1-6 (celli and basses)
            
               
            
            example 4: measures 12-16 (celli and basses)
            
               
            
            example 5: measures 22-29 (celli, basses and violas)
            Example 4 transitions from C to F, and adds pitch-class E to the pentatonic set of Example 3, creating a six-note set of stacked fourths. Example 5 shows the true dominance of the perfect fourth; the set created is a ten-note set derived by stacking fourths.
                  If we begin from the final D and ascend the circle of fourths until we reach C we obtain the entire set presented in this example.
                Each note is either approached or left (or both) by a fourth, and the structural motion is from F to D. The overall motion in the first 29 measures is C to D, through F; these are represented enharmonically in Example 2 as D, E and G. As previously mentioned, this motion constitutes the initial ascent to what will eventually be a whole-tone descent from F to F. So the prevailing structural motion of the movement as a whole is a descending whole step and the prevailing melodic motion is a (usually ascending) perfect fourth. We can connect the two by noting that the descending whole step consists of two ascending fourths; indeed, the structural whole-tone descent is often filled in with the intervening fourth. This motion is exemplified in Example 2 in the second theme group (mm. 155-233), and as we will see, it occurs in other places, though not relevant enough to the background structure to be represented in Example 2. 
            Each time the motion in Examples 3 through 5 breaks from chains of fourths, the same sequence of intervals occurs: two descending perfect fourths separated by an ascending major second (-5, +2, -5); each instance of this intervallic cell is bracketed in the examples. This sequence of intervals is the inversion of those found in the second head motive of the first theme of the exposition, shown in measures 2-3 of Example 8. So although there is no thematic relation between the Introduction and the main sections of the movement, within the first 29 measures we can already see structural, harmonic and motivic elements that apply to the movement as a whole.
            The section from measures 35-50 is centered on E; upon the return of D, enharmonically respelled as E, in measure 58, we see that E acts as its upper-neighbor. This relationship is somewhat obscured by measures 51-57 however; while there is no clear tonal center for this section, G appears in the outer voices in measure 51, although the harmonic material is reminiscent of C minor. The concluding motive of this section in the violins (the bracketed sections of Example 6), as well as the bass motive of measure 58ff. (Example 7), are related to the first head motive of the first theme, which is shown in the first measure of Example 8. All three of these motives span a tritone, which as mentioned is the dominant relationship in this movement. Paul Wilson describes the transition from the Introduction to the Exposition as quite abrupt and seemingly unmotivated,
                  Wilson, 173.
                but it is in fact this motivic relationship that ties them together and creates a rather smooth transition.
            
               
            
            example 6: measures 56-58 (violin 1)
            
               
            
            example 7: measure 58 (violas, celli, basses); repeated through measure 75
            The Exposition
            Although the motivic relationship between the Introduction and the first theme of the exposition smooth the transition, nearly every other element changes when the first theme appears. The drastic tempo and meter changes as well as the first appearances of staccato articulations make it clear to the listener that the introduction is over. As mentioned, the first theme, the beginning of which is reproduced in Example 8, contains two head motives: the first is the tritone-spanning ascent that appears in the first measure, and the second is an iteration of the interval cell (+5, -2, +5) that appears in the second through third measures. While the presence of the perfect fourths that was so prevalent in the Introduction is clear in the latter, the former does not employ the perfect fourth in its formation. Rather, this motive is a small-scale representation of the tonic-dominant relationship of tritone partners, specifically F and B, that is the basis for the harmonic structure of this movement.
            
               
            
            example 8: measures 76-80 (violins)
            Rhythmically, we have a dissonance between the melody, which follows the written meter, and the accompanying chords in the bassoons, horns and lower strings. Example 9 reproduces the chords, and Example 10 rewrites them in a meter that is more consistent with their rhythmic pattern. As Example 10 shows, the chords are more-or-less in duple meter (4/8 and 2/8) with one hiccup occurring in the 5/8 measure. This is in strict metric dissonance with the triple meter of the melody (with its own hiccups occurring in the written 2/8 measures). As we will later see, this dissonance disappears when this theme returns in the recapitulation.
            
               
            
            example 9: measures 77-91 (bassoons, horns, lower strings; reduced)
            
               
            
            example 10: measures 77-91 rebarred to reflect rhythmic pattern
            We have already mentioned that the first theme group is in Fthis is made clear from the onset, both in the melodic line and by the F minor triad that occurs on the downbeat of measure 77. While the material occasionally departs from this F in measures 76-94, these departures are all subordinate to the prolonged F. E is the tonal center for measures 95-134, although it does not appear as a strong bass note until measure 131. Measures 95-130 contain a mostly chromatic descent from C to E, where E is anticipated throughout as a goal tone for the bass. Example 11 illustrates this structure. Immediately following the arrival of E in the bass, C (D) is established as the tonal center for the final transition to the second theme. The trombone motive in measures 134-141, shown in Example 12, is the subject of the fugato section in part 3 of the development, although its importance is downplayed here. Note that the initial G is a pickup to the section in C, which fills in the whole-tone descent from E to C with the intervening fourth. This motive also contains the intervallic cell of the second head motive of the first theme in the form of G-C-B-E (with the addition of some passing tones), in addition to consisting largely of motion by perfect fourths.
            
               
            
            example 11: bass structure of the first theme group, measures 76-155
            
               
            
            example 12: measures 134-141 (trombone)
            Wilson claims that C and E are local dominants to F in this first section of the exposition.
                  Wilson, 174.
                While the strong V-I motion from measures 90-91 does carry a tonal implication of dominant-tonic, such cadential bass motion does not imply anything about structural function in this context. E, furthermore, is not convincingly established as a dominant-functioning tone at all. The passage from measures 85-89 is centered on E (and the pentatonic set from the opening of the exposition is transposed down a whole step), but its mere presence as local tonic does not signify any sort of dominant function. Rather, we can consider this occurrence of E as a middleground-level whole-tone descent that foreshadows the structural descent to E at measure 131 that is represented in Example 2. In measures 91-95, the bass descends F-E-D-C, which might seem to support Cs functioning as structural dominant. However, as previously mentioned, C acts as a fake dominant that in measures 149-155 actually functions as an upper neighbor to B, the true dominant. The descent in measures 91-95 in fact participates in the farce by projecting a descent ending on C, which makes the eventual reinterpretation of C and descent to B stronger. This creates both a smooth transition to the second theme and a strong sense that a new section is beginning, a combination that is generally rather difficult to forge.
            The second theme is tranquil and harmonically simple, which is in stark contrast to the first theme. B dominates as tonal center from measures 155-191 with little or no harmonic motion away from it. Measures 192-197 are in E, with the bass notes in the harp, and measures 198-209 are in D. A intervenes between E and D in measure 195another instance of the whole-tone being filled in by a fourth. The return to B in measure 210 is also filled-in in this way by F in measures 208-209. Hence, measures 155-210 constitute the bass progression B-E-D-B; the same stepwise descent (E-D) occurred in the first theme group while F rather than B was being prolonged. Paul Wilson points out that [i]n substituting for F within an analogous structure, B receives confirmation at this point as the crucial interior center of the movement.
                  Wilson, 179.
                In our terminology, this is the point at which B is unequivocally established as the structural dominant.
            The Development
            As mentioned, the development is divided into three subsections. In Example 2, the entire development section is represented by exactly three pitches, and indeed each subsection is associated with one of these three pitches as its tonal centernone of these pitches is involved in the structural whole-tone descent. As Paul Wilson states, the development is, for Bartks music, developmental in a relatively conventional way; the themes from the exposition are expanded and modified, and tonalities other than those expected arise.
                  Wilson, 180.
                The only slight abnormality, though it is certainly not unheard of even in classical-period sonata movements, is the emergence of a new theme in the second section of the development. Although Wilson claims that this theme is based on a transformation in rhythm and contour of the second head-motive of [the first-theme],
                  Wilson, 182.
                there is no intervallic relationship between the two motives, and it is not clear what elements of a motive remain when rhythm, contour and interval content are changed. Furthermore, this section, being the middle section of the movement, upholds the formal symmetry if interpreted as its own theme.
            The first section of the development, measures 231-271, begins with a big D-minor chord which immediately establishes D as the tonal center for the section. Although it moves to E minor in measure 239, it returns to D minor in measure 248, which suggests that E is an upper neighbor prolonging D. The passage beginning at measure 248, shown in Example 13, can be considered to be the theme of this section, and is a development of the second head motive of the first theme. This motive undergoes inversion and extension throughout the section. While Wilson rightly identifies the resultant set of measures 261-264 as 6-Z50 ([014679]), identifying it as such does not offer much analytical insight until we point out that this is a simple extension of the intervallic sequence (+5, -2, +5) from the original motive.
            
               
            
            example 13: measures 248-264 (violins)
            The second section of the development is in C (which is sometimes spelled D). This section is reproduced as Example 14. This section returns to the calm simplicity (and tempo) of the second section, though apart from affect there are no references to that section. Although the C major chord in measure 293, preceded by A major (V) in measure 285, suggests C as tonal center, the tonality is not strongly established until measure 303. The arrival at C was foreshadowed by the first two measures of the development (Example 15), which are almost a direct transposition of the two head motives of the first theme to C.
                  Because of its emphasis here in the development section and its position as leading to B in the second theme group, we could conceive of C# as a sub-dominant in this movement. As tempting as this interpretation may be, this observation is relegated to the notes section because it constitutes a horrible abuse of terminologythere is only so far that such tonal analogies can go before they begin to hide any true analytical insight behind misused terms.
               
            
            
               
            
            example 15: measures 231-232 (violins and trumpets)
            
            
               
            
            
            example 14: measures 272-313 (reduction): development, part 2
            The third section of the development takes the trombone motive from the transition between the first and second sections of the exposition shown in Example 12, transposed to begin on F, and turns it into a fugato sequence, reproduced in Example 17. The tonal center B is established immediately in measures 316-318 by the strong V-I chord progression (Example 16). As previously mentioned, the fugato motive incorporates the motion by perfect fourths found in the Introduction as well as the intervallic cell found in the second head motive of the first theme. The resultant set is the pentatonic set F-B-E-A-D; the entire passage shown in Example 17 remains within this set. The second and fourth entrances of the fugato subject are transposed up a perfect fifth, but the first note is B rather than C, which allows Bartk to remain in this pentatonic set (and also to reinforce B as tonal center).
            
               
            
            example 16: measures 316-318: establishment of b
            The second instance of the fugato section, not reproduced in its entirety but based on the subject in Example 18, is an exact pitch inversion transposed to begin on C. The inversion blends seamlessly back into the original subject in measure 363. The following section (measures 363-389) especially brings out the quartal harmonies within the pentatonic set, so much so that B is obscured as tonal center which allows A to emerge as the goal tone of this sectiononly to be immediately reinterpreted as a leading tone to the A that begins the recapitulation. Both B and A are chromatic neighbors to A, which intensifies the arrival on A, and brings out the fact that the appearance of A continues the large-scale whole-tone descent that has been left stranded on B for the entire development section.
            
               
            
            example 17: measures 316-340 (brass): fugato section
            
               
            
            example 18: measures 342-349 (horns): inverted fugato subject
            The Recapitulation
            The recapitulation, as we have seen, presents the themes in reverse order. The second theme is initially presented in A, as part of the whole-tone descent, and proceeds directly to G, where it is restated slightly modified. It is worth pointing out that the arrival on G at measure 425 is led into by D, which constitutes another filling in of the whole-step by the intervening fourth. The A in measure 438 might initially seem to be a new tonal area, but it leads to D in measure 444, which constitutes a V chord still applied to G. Rather than resolve this D back to G, however, Bartk shifts briefly to F in measure 456 and leads to E in measure 467. E and F are both active throughout the entire transition from second theme back to first theme (measures 456-487) which brings out their functions as upper and lower chromatic neighbors to F, which returns triumphantly in measure 488 with the much-anticipated recapitulation of the first theme.
            The return of the first theme is certainly immediately recognized as such; however, there are some important differences. Firstly, its initial appearance in the exposition had a minor flare to it; the first chord in Example 9 is an F-minor triad, and the first four notes of Example 8 ascend the F-minor scale. In the recapitulation of this theme, shown in Example 19, the first chord is an F-major chord, and the A is replaced by A in the melody. In fact, the chord progression of the first four measures of Example 19 can be thought of tonally as I-vi-V in F majorwhile we are reluctant to say that this passage is in major (the conspicuous A in measure 490 easily brings doubt to this interpretation), we can certainly say that the minor flare of the beginning has been replaced by a major flare here in the recapitulation.
            In addition to the mode-shift, we notice that the metric dissonance shown in Examples 9 and 10 no longer appears (notice how regular the rhythm of the accompanying figure is in Example 19) and also that the written meter no longer changes. In other words, the piece, in becoming more regular, is beginning to drive towards the finishbecause of the formal structure, the recapitulation of the first theme also serves as the closing section of the movement. Indeed, this section has the feel of a Coda to itit is much shorter than any other major section or subsection, and the tonic harmony is active throughout. There are also no phrase divisionsthe music simply drives forward with no pause until measure 514, where the fugato motive appears in the brass over an obvious V-I cadence, signaling the end of the movement which occurs as the motive completes.
            
               
            
            example 19: measures 488-494: the first theme in the recapitulation
            
               
            
            There is no fine line between music that is tonal and music that is atonal. Bartk is one of the many early-twentieth century composers whose music fits entirely in the gray area between tonality and atonality. While we know from his writings that he often composed with a tonal centers and relationships in mind, and that he regularly applied tonal structures and forms to his compositions, by merely glancing at any one of his pieces we can see that tonality as it is understood in the common practice period is not at work. Thanks largely to the work of tonal theorists such as Heinrich Schenker and others, we have a detailed system for analyzing tonal musictheir system, however, is virtually useless in analyzing music that falls entirely on the atonal side of the spectrum. But if we apply it to music such as Bartks that is in the middle area, we can come up with some enlightening and perhaps unexpected results. To do so was the goal of this analysis of the first movement of the Concerto for Orchestra. By applying our tonal system to music that slips outside of the tonal realm, we not only find the elements of tonality that do remain, but we also pinpoint exactly when and how this music breaks from previous conventions. It is not disputed that Bartks music has great expressive powerperhaps now we can understand why.
            References
            Antokoletz, Elliot. The Music of Bla Bartk: A Study of Tonality and Progression in Twentieth-Century Music. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1992.
            Bartk, Bla. Essays. Selected and Edited by Benjamin Suchoff. New York: St. Martins Press, 1976.
            Bernard, Jonathan W. Space and Symmetry in Bartk. Journal of Music Theory 30 (1986): 185-201.
            ________. Zones of Impingement: Two Movements from Bartks Music for Strings, Percussion, and Celesta. Music Theory Spectrum 25 (2003): 3-34.
            Berry, Wallace. Symmetrical Interval sets and Derivative Pitch Materials in Bartks String Quartet No. 3. Perspectives of New Music 18 (1979/80): 287-379.
            Cohn, Richard. Inversional Symmetry and Transpositional Combination in Bartk. Music Theory Spectrum 10 (1988): 19-42.
            ________. Bartks Octatonic Strategies: A Motivic Approach. Journal of the American Musicological Society 44 (1991): 262-300.
            Morrison, Charles D. Prolongation in the Final Movement of Bartks String Quartet No. 4. Music Theory Spectrum 13 (1991): 179-196.
            Travis, Roy. Tonal Coherence in the First Movement of Bartks Fourth String Quartet. The Music Forum 2 (1970): 298-371.
            Wilson, Paul. The Music of Bla Bartk. New Haven: Yale University Press, 1992.
         
      
      
   

   
      
         
            Lauren Ballinger
            05/12/08
          
            Reaching Transcendence through the Elimination of color:
            The Ideal Minimalism of Black and White

            The world is made up of a myriad of colors. color gives distinction to our life, it
               gives flavor and meaning. What would our lives be without color? At the same time in
               our modern society, color has been seen as an external threat to be purged from the
               enlightened mind and space. color is seen as corrupting, intoxicating, disorienting
               and in art, has come to be associated with the vulgar and the kitsch. We went from
               times of celebrating color and decoration to one of minimalism where black and white
               were placed at the front as representations of modernity and ultimate transcendence.
               What is the significance for this preference for black and white when it comes to
               high art? Why in a world filled with color do we feel the need to purge it from our
               space? What exactly is the debate between colorlessness vs color and more
               specifically can black and white be considered non-colors? 
            Ever since the dawn of man, human society has evolved in ways which attempt to
               ultimately control nature. Seeing as color is something of the natural world, age
               old and archaic, washing it away from our lives is the ultimate form of rising above
               the physical world. Intelligent beings have a language represented by articulate
               sounds; organized beings, like all animals and vegetables, express themselves by
               cries or forms, contour or carriage. Inorganic nature has only the language of
               color. It is by color alone that a certain stone tells us it is a sapphire or
               emerald color, then, is the peculiar characteristic of the lower forms of nature,
               while drawing becomes the medium of expression, more and more dominant, the higher we
               rise in the scale of being(Blanc, Chromophobia, p.25). The history of color is
               about the ways in which man has tried to find the ideal state of being throughout the
               ages. 
            In the Far East, reaching a state of colorless-ness is associated with the highest
               state of spiritual being, the state of Zen. What is typical of this sort of ascetism
               is the art of expressing as much as possible using the minimum as an ideal. This is
               apparent through Japanese haiku as well as the art of ink painting in both China and
               Japan. For them, reaching the greatest depths of spirituality demanded expression in
               its most minimal form. This reduction of color and expression proved the purity the
               artist had reached within himself, it was a means of reducing down to the essence of
               a thing. 
            In the Elimination of color in the Far East, Izutsu explains though how this
               ultimate state of minimalism can only be reached through an appreciation and fine
               knowledge of color. This artistic acestism, i.e., the suppression of externals and
               the reduction of all colors to black and white, manifests its real aesthetic
               function only against the background of a highly refined sensibility for colors and
               their subtle hues. In other words, the true profundity of the beauty of black and
               white is disclosed only to those eyes that are able to appreciate the splendors of
               sumptuous and glowing colors with all their delicate shades and tints(Izutsu, p.
               169). For black and white can only be seen as distinguishing against a background of
               color and for this very reason one can assert that both black and white are colors
               in themselves as non-colors. 
            It is through the absence of color that one brings to mind the colors that are no
               longer present. It is up to the mind to fill in the blank space. Without color one
               could not appreciate the purity of the black and white space. colorlessness needs
               color in order to for the full aesthetic experience to take place. That is to say,
               under the total absence of color, there is a vague reminiscence of all colors that
               have been killed(Izutsu, p. 177). Black and white are the consummation of all
               colors into one. Black is life; it is the infinite possibility of expression and
               development. Black here is not sheer black. For in its negation of all colors, all
               colors are positively affirmed(Izutsu, p. 193). It is through these means that one
               finds the essence in a thing. 
            In Western society, this purging of color began with the rejection of ideals of
               generations past. Eliminating color was a way of eliminating the decadence of the
               18th century. Society turned to minimalism as a way of cleansing life, representing
               modernity. color became a moral issue, seen as something sensuous and dangerous in
               its secondary nature to the essence of life and form. The predominance of color at
               the expense of drawing is a usurpation of the relative over the absolute, of fleeting
               appearance over permanent form, of physical impression over the empire of the
               soul(Chromophobia, p. 28). color rests on the surface of an object, it is
               superficial, cosmetic and therefore deceptive since it hides the true nature of that
               thing. 
            color is associated with the Fall from Grace. It is something which speaks to the
               senses, not the mind, it is external and therefore secondary to life. It deals with
               the body, emotions, not the intellect. It strays from reason in the way which it
               consumes and manipulates life. color was a permanent internal threat, an
               ever-present inner other which, if unleashed, would be the ruin of everything, the
               fall of culture. For [Charles Blanc] color also represents a kind of ruination.
               color for him signifies the mythical savage state out of which civilization, the
               nobility of the human spirit, slowly, heroically, has lifted itself  but back into
               which it could always slide(Chromophobia, p. 23). It is a descent in the way it
               makes one lose consciousness and enter into the physical world of desire, and to
               desire is to lose control over oneself. Thus, began the cult of the black and white. 
            White is seen as representing spirituality, the heavens, and light, it is all which
               is modern, it signifies the opposite of the carnal nature of color. It is the
               control of nature, and the body and represents the modern man. 
            WHITE is the spiritual color of our times, the clearness which directs all out
               actions. It is neither grey white, nor vory white, but pure white. 
            WHITE is the color of modern times, the color which dissipates a whole era; our era
               is perfection, purity, certitude.
            WHITE It includes everything.
            We have superceded both the brown of decadence and classiscm and the blue of
               divisionism, the cult of the blue ky, the gods with green beards and the
               spectrum.
            WHITE pure white.(Chromophobia, p. 47). 
            For these reasons black and white have been placed at the top of the hierarchy of
               colors. Abolishing color means controlling color. The white surface exposes
               color, presents it for disciplining. It keeps an eye on all the objects it frames.
               But before that, it keeps an eye on itself, watching its freshly laundered and neatly
               folded fabric for the stain of color(Wigly, p. 151). colorlessness is not natural,
               and thus proves mans superiority over this world. 
            On the other hand, we need color in order to distinguish black and white. Just as
               those from the Far East, the purity of white implies what has been washed away and
               thus makes the white glitter even more. White and black stand out because of color,
               and color stand out because of white and black. They are linked intrinsically
               together, one cannot go without the other. White is the setting for color.. In a
               mosque for example, the architectonic effect of its white garment is assisted by a
               strategic use of color: All these things are clothed in a majestic coat of
               whitewash. The forms stand out clearly; the impeccable construction displays all its
               boldness. At times a high stylobate of delightful ceramic produces a blue vibration.
               The sensuous vibration of the color clarifies the white surface whose limit it
               marks(Wigley, p. 209). We need this opposition between color and non-color to make
               distinction between the two, otherwise neither would hold such significance. White
               helps to harmonize colors that would otherwise clash, it brings together and unites.
               White expresses a certain incorporeality. The use of white is therefore decisive for
               the bodily appearance of a space. Concrete bodies decrease the space more or less
               depending on their color value. Against white, one can actually establish the
               intensity of clashing colors; white determines the tone in the first place. Because
               of this it is possible to take up any given colors and make them harmonize(Wigley,
               p. 311). 
            For this reason white walls are favored over colored ones for both galleries and
               architectural spaces. The white of the walls intensifies the color of what is set
               before them. It stabilizes and controls forms because it brings to light the contours
               of the space. In the white painted room the clarity of spatial sensation and
               disposition was surest and most convincing, all the details of the form and color of
               the furnishings could be developed undisturbed in front of this backgroundIn this a
               form was discovered which was completely convincing in its simplicity and which could
               be seen as one of the essential formulas for wall treatment in closed
               spaces(Wigley, p. 313). 
            There is another important aspect which white is representative of, and that is the
               well educated and socially elite. In the 19th century it became fashionable for
               bourgeois women to dress in white, while men dressed in black (Wigley). These
               distinctions proved a certain rational order, only attained by those able to afford
               of it. White walls, white clothing, they both require much more maintenance than
               something colored where a stain can merely hide away among the other colors. Crisp
               whiteness on the other hand expresses a sort of luxury, and leisure. White clothing
               proved that someone was of a level of society in which they were not forced to work,
               for the clothing would immediately become soiled if not and thus the reason why women
               who were the ones to stay at home dressed in all white, while men who were the ones
               to go out and work wore black, for black did in fact hide stains. 
            The same goes with white walls, in their impeccability it proved to whoever, that the
               owner could afford to not live actually live in this space, or could afford more
               simply for the upkeep and constant fresh coats of paint. Both as well were signs of
               the modern age man had reached. Pure white was de rigueur, partly because of its
               exciting novelty, partly because it emphasized the smoothly mechanical texture, and
               pointed the contrast between it and surrounding nature(Wigley, p. xvii). The use of
               white was proof that man had conquered nature. 
            The use of white and black in dress and architecture also became a way of
               distinguishing oneself from the vulgar, normal, lower classes. ..it is also worthy
               of remark, that savage nations, uneducated people, and children have a great
               predilection for vivid colors; that animals are excited to rage by certain colors;
               that people of refinement avoid vivid colors in their dress and the objects that are
               about them, and seem inclined to banish them altogether from their
               presence(Chromophobia, p. 112). Furthermore, with the advent of industrialization
               the invention of new synthetic dyes meant that color in dress became democratized for
               all classes. Now, anyone could afford to wear colorful clothing and the masses began
               to dress themselves in what once would have been inconceivable to them. 
            Thus said, the use of black in white in wardrobe perhaps was a way for the new
               bourgeoisie to distinguish themselves from the decadence of the upper class and the
               vulgarity from the low. In the prevailing styles of the European bourgeoisie, there
               long survived a tendency to limit the use of color, with strong emphasis on what are
               generally thought of as non colors, such as white, black and gray(The Style Engine,
               p. 40). Another reason why it is believed that the bourgeoisie took preference in
               black and white is because of the Victorian sobriety of the age and their obsession
               with purity and cleanliness. Wearing black and white also marked the distinction of
               labor between men and women and in a highly rigid and segmented society, the wearing
               of different colors seemed the most obvious way to do so. This simplicity of dress
               was seen as a mark of the modern man. 
            Other major technologies during the age of industrialization also had an effect on
               this preference for black and white. Photography took over as a means of portraiture
               for the bourgeois and the upper class and despite the fact that it was possible to
               color the photographs, for the most part they were left in black and white because it
               was seen as more natural. Above all, it is believed that the expanse of literacy
               and the printed word, mainly the newspaper, had a profound effect in influencing the
               choice of black and white. This world was viewed as orderly and relatively uniform,
               a world in black and white. This led to the idea of writing = rationality =
               production that confined images, especially images in color, to the emerging field of
               art, which was understood as an essential activity but one that was essentially
               unproductive, while it assigned to the two-toned and orderly world of printed paper
               the role of a daily guide to existence(The Style Engine, p. 42). The world of print
               was therefore seen as something serious for the modern man. 
            Black and white became a symbol for the superiority of mans intellect and
               technology. This then translated down into the world of fashion, as seen with the
               distinction between black and white clothing, as well as art, namely photography but
               also film and as discussed before architecture and gallery space. 
            Seeing as since the time of Aristotle, form was valued over that of color, the arts
               which did not require color to be enjoyed were perceived to be that of a higher form.
               The explosion of mass production and printing allowed for a plethora of colorful
               advertising and consumer goods which came to be known as kitsch. Kitsch is a product
               of the industrial revolution which urbanized the masses of Western Europe and America
               and established what is called universal literacy(Greenberg). In order to meet the
               demand of mass markets cheap and bright things of little use were made to attract the
               attention of consumers. Kitsch made cheap what once was truly cultural by the way it
               reproduced it d infinitum. Greenberg continues by saying, Kitsch, using for raw
               material the debased and academicized simulacra of genuine culture, welcomes and
               cultivates this insensibility. It is the source of its profits. Kitsch is mechanical
               and operates by formulas. Kitsch is vicarious experience and faked sensations. Kitsch
               changes according to style, but remains always the same. Kitsch is the epitome of all
               that is spurious in the life of our times. Kitsch pretends to demand nothing of its
               customers except their money -- not even their time. With the advent of kitsch came
               a great need for the distinction between higher and lower artforms. Avant guard at
               the time was considered to be true art, while this kitsch was simply pure imitation. 
            Thus said, this along with the influence of black and white print perhaps was the
               cause for the belief that which was black and white was deemed a serious, high art,
               while that which was colorful was mere rubbish and imitation for the lower classes.
               Of course during the early stages of color film and photography, the quality was so
               poor that it gave a cheap look, whereas black and white film really allowed one to
               see the light and the shadows in the images. For the play of light and form was key
               in demonstrating the true art form. That was what made up the essence of an image,
               not the artificial, or superficial filling in of form with color. Color was thought
               to distract the viewer from the soul of the image. 
            These beliefs have changed since color technology as tweeked to the point of being
               almost better than reality. Still though black and white is seen as something of a
               more sober tradition. Photographers still use black and white and white is still the
               most widely used color for walls within gallery spaces. These non colors allow for
               the appreciation of color. When something is black and white, it allows the mind to
               fill in and imagine for itself the amazing colors that must exist beyond the screen.
               Many actually complained with the invention of color in movies that this stunted the
               mind since one was forced to look at the garish colors placed before them. It is for
               this reason that ultimately the use of black and white is seen as more of an
               intellectual process. It forces one to imagine, it forces one to delve into the core
               of the object. Whether it mean going beyond the mind or simply the purity of non
               color, the use of black and white has been debated over for the last hundred years.
               Now we have entered an era where we are seeing once again more color, but perhaps it
               is human instinct, to want to surpass and rebel against generations before, so
               possibly we shall return to a state of non color veneration. Thus is the ebb and
               flow of life. 

         
      
   

   
      
         
            The debate over homosexuality has been one of the most long-lasting and controversial
               ones ever. What, exactly, causes homosexuality? Some would say it is a gene, passed
               on from parents to child. Others would argue that it is a result of a childs
               upbringing. Still more would claim that it is a mental illness that can and should be
               cured. Perhaps then, it is a combination of some of these? No one knows for sure, and
               it is possible no one ever will, but that surely does not stop everyone from coming
               up with their own theories and beliefs on the matter.
            Documented homosexuality dates as far back as ancient Greece and other cultures of
               the time, where it was considered to be a very normal and natural occurrence (Emond).
               In his book The Symposium, Plato wrote Those who are halves of a man whole pursue
               males, and being slices, so to speak, of the male, love men throughout their boyhood,
               and take pleasure in physical contact with men (qtd. in Isay 11). This shows that
               not only did Plato consider it normal for a male to be attracted to another male, he
               also believed that it began at a very young age, as the word boyhood signifies. In
               fact, Plato even considered love between two members of the same sex to be the only
               real and lasting love and necessary for democracy. Furthermore, there were many
               occurrences of homosexual behavior in Greek mythology; Hercules is rumored to have
               had 14 male lovers, and Zeus himself partook in such behavior. Even Homer wrote about
               Achilles and Patroclus, who have been considered to be the perfect model of true love
               (Emond).
            But it was not until 1869 that the term homosexual was first used, to describe a
               man or woman whose feelings of sexual attraction are for someone of the same sex
               (Marcus 1). (However, for the purposes of this paper, homosexuality will be looked at
               solely in terms of men). At this point in time, Karl Maria Kertbeny used the word in
               a pamphlet which fought to repeal the current antihomosexual laws of Prussia.
               Kertbeny derived this word from the Greek word for same and the Latin word for
               sex, whereas a heterosexual is a person whose feelings of sexual attraction are
               for the opposite sex (Marcus 1).
            It was also in the 1800s when the debate itself over the cause of homosexuality was
               started by Magnus Hirschfeld, a physician, sex researcher, leading sexologist,
               homosexual, and founder of the first gay rights movement in Germany, who believed
               that homosexuality was biological in nature (Marcus 10). Hirschfeld also founded the
               Scientific Humanitarian committee, which was mostly homosexual, in 1897. The
               committee published many books and other forms of literature, which gave Hirschfeld a
               great amount of prestige in his field. He became known as one of the founding fathers
               of sexology, and furthered this position when he opened the worlds first sexological
               institute, the institute for Sexual Science in Berlin, in 1919, which was destroyed
               by the Nazis 15 years later. Hirschfeld largely supported the Urning theory of Karl
               Ulrichs, with minor additions; he believed in some hormonal theories as a cause of
               homosexuality, but this only led to unsuccessful attempts to cure homosexuals with
               the use of hormone injections. This theory, which defined Urnings as males who turned
               to other males as sexual partners, was published in twelve pamphlets by Ulrichs,
               starting in1864. The first, Vindex, defended Urnings, while the second, Inclusa,
               which followed shortly after, described the first scientific theory of homoerotic
               desire. Ulrichs believed that Urnings were attracted to other males because they were
               hermaphrodites of the mind, meaning while they may have been male in body, they
               were female in soul and mind, leading them to be naturally attracted to males in
               terms of sexual partners. This, he claimed, made laws such as paragraph 175, a law
               adopted by King William I throughout the German Kingdoms at the time of their
               unification which forbade sex between males, and forced criminal penalties upon
               individuals partaking in such behavior, unfair and unreasonable . Ulrichs claimed
               that the origin of such a disposition was natural and inborn (Wikholm).
            A couple thousand years after Plato and Homer, Sigmund Freud still believed
               homosexuality to be a natural behavior. In an interview in 1903, he professed his
               beliefs: I am of the firm conviction that homosexuals must not be treated as sick
               people Homosexual persons are not sick. They also do not belong in a court of law!
               (qtd. in Isay 3). In 1935, he furthered his claims when he wrote a now famous Letter
               to an American Mother of a homosexual, which stated that Homosexuality is assuredly
               no advantage, but is nothing to be ashamed of, no vice, no degradation, it cannot be
               classified as an illness Many highly respectable individuals of ancient and modern
               times have been homosexuals (qtd. in Isay 3).
            However, the general public of the 1800s and early 1900s, including the medical
               professionals, regarded homosexuality as a curable mental illness. Treatments such as
               castration, hysterectomy, lobotomy, and electroshock therapy were used as attempted
               cures. By the mid 1900s, psychotherapy became the most common cure, and many
               homosexuals spent countless hours being analyzed in hopes of changing their sexual
               preference (Dudley 125).
            Dr. Evelyn Hooker, a heterosexual psychologist, conducted a ground-breaking study in
               the mid 1950s that went along similar reasoning as Freud. In this courageous
               experiment, Hooker compared the psychological profiles of sixty men, half homosexual
               and half heterosexual. She disagreed with the popular belief at the time that
               homosexuality was a mental illness, and concluded that there was no significant
               psychological difference between homosexual and heterosexual men; gay men were no
               more insane than their straight counterparts (Marcus 183).
            Fortunately, many prominent psychiatrists also believed that homosexuality was not an
               illness, and their lobbying, along with the innovative study performed by Hooker, who
               has been referred to as the Rosa Parks of the gay movement convinced the American
               Psychiatric Association Board of Trustees to vote to remove homosexuality from the
               Diagnostic and Statistical Manual as a mental illness in December of 1973. Just over
               a year later, the American Psychological Association also removed homosexuality from
               their list of mental illnesses (Marcus 11). The American Psychological Association
               further reiterated this belief when an overwhelming majority of the Council of
               Representatives adopted the Resolution on Appropriate Therapeutic Responses to Sexual
               Orientation in 1997, which publicly chastised those who attempted to cure
               homosexuality by means of various forms of treatment. It stated, rather that
               homosexuality was merely a difference in the opinion and values of the common person,
               but must still be respected as an individual orientation, and thus treated as one
               (Resolution on Appropriate Therapeutic Responses to Sexual Orientation).
            Perhaps one of the most famous studies on this topic was concluded in 1991 by Michael
               Bailey, an assistant professor of psychology at Northwestern University, and Richard
               Pillard, an associate professor of psychiatry at Boston University School of
               Medicine, and found that sexual orientation in males is largely due to genetics. For
               two years, these men studied the number of occurrences of homosexuality in both
               monozygotic, or identical twins (a set of twins coming from the same fertilized egg
               and thus having identical DNA), and dizygotic, or fraternal twins (a set of twins
               from too separate zygotes, causing them to have similar DNA, but not any more so than
               that of two ordinary siblings), in addition to adoptive brothers of gay males
               (meaning that all of these males would have been raised in the same environment). In
               total, 110 pairs of twins (identical and fraternal) and 142 sets of male and their
               adopted brothers were studied, where at least one of the two had been classified as
               homosexual, either by self-identification or other means. Out of the 56 homosexual
               males who had identical twins, 29, or approximately 52 % of their identical twin
               brothers were also found to be homosexual, as compared to only 12, or approximately
               22 % of the 54 non-identical twins of homosexual males, and 6, or approximately 11 %
               of the 57 adopted brothers of homosexual males who were unrelated in terms of
               genetics. Strangely enough, the study also included pairs of biological brothers that
               were not twins, and out of the 142 homosexual males studied, only 14, or about 9 %,
               had homosexual brothers, which is approximately the normal statistical incidence of
               homosexuality in the general population (Bailey & Pillard).
            More and more people are beginning to believe that homosexuality is not a choice,
               but rather a feeling that one is born with. As one grows older, they become aware of
               sexual feelings towards other persons. The only difference between homosexuals and
               heterosexuals is that while heterosexuals are attracted to members of the opposite
               sex, homosexuals are attracted to those of the same sex. Therefore, neither
               homosexuals nor heterosexuals really have a choice in the matter, and asking a
               homosexual Why are you attracted to other members of your sex is likened to asking
               a heterosexual Why are you attracted to members of the opposite sex? After all, why
               would anyone choose such a difficult lifestyle? As a homosexual, one risks horrifying
               their parents, other family members, and friends to the point of losing all contact
               with them, ruining their career, being condemned by their religion, being beat up for
               publicly displaying their sexuality, and much much more. Rather, the only actual
               choice is whether or not to be open with ones sexuality and sexual preference;
               whether to act on ones sexual desires, whether to tell others about such feelings,
               or whether to live a whole life as a lie and suppress these attractions (Marcus
               9).
            To supplement my findings from research, I have conducted personal interviews with
               two adolescent homosexual males, James Dobbens and Daniel Woods. Both were asked how
               what they thought determined homosexuality (nature vs. nurture) and why, when they
               realized they were homosexual and how they knew, and similar questions. Both believed
               that homosexual was a result of nature, rather than nurture (Dobbens & Woods).
               Dobbens reasoned that most parents would not raise their children to be homosexual;
               Theyre not like My childs going to be gay! (Dobbens). Dobbens believes that he
               was born homosexual. When why he was a homosexual, he explained Its just the way
               you are, you cant explain it, I was just born that way, its like asking how the
               world was made  no one really knows (Dobbens). He went on to explain that while his
               nurture did not impact his sexual orientation, it did affect his view of it. When
               discussing the role of parents and upbringing in a childs sexuality, he commented
               They can bring you up [to be] open minded to [homosexuality], but they dont bring
               you up [to be a homosexual] I grew up in a place where [homosexuality is accepted],
               so thats why Im so open about being gay; I accept myself [Whether or not you
               accept homosexuality and can be honest with yourself if you are homosexual] depends
               on how youre brought up (Dobbens). Woods generally agreed with Dobbens, and
               justified his belief that homosexuality was caused by ones nature, rather than
               nurture, when he commented that theres nothing in my upbringing that exposed me to
               anything like [homosexuality] (Woods). When asked why he was gay, he explained that
               it is simply something that I cant help embedded in my head; nothing made me do
               it (Woods). He went on to explain that it the same thing as the primitive attraction
               between males and females, only it was between males and other males. He added that
               nothing happened [to make me homosexual]; its always been there. Ive always been
               attracted to guys (Woods). What I find to be extraordinary about Woods case is that
               he remarked how while he has always been sexually attracted go guys, he is
               romantically attracted to women in the sense that he has always wanted a girlfriend
               and to be close with other females, etc but never in a sexual sense. Though he has
               always kind of fantasized about getting married [to a female], these feelings come
               from his romantic side, which is different from the sexual side (Woods). He says
               that if he married a female with which he shared a strong trust, maybe he could work
               it out. He then went back to talk about homosexuality as in innate characteristic;
               Its like race. Its all something you cant help; it all comes to you Its
               internal, you cant help it (Woods). When asked if he thought homosexuality was
               caused by a gene, he commented that he thought that it was more of an instinct. He
               gave the example of birds, which are born with instincts such as knowing how to build
               a next, or catch their prey. Woods also thought that maybe it was caused by something
               in the development of the embryo. All in all, Woods views homosexuality as
               fascinating. His final thought: I also believe everyone has at least one
               homosexual attraction. Its not black and white [homosexual vs. heterosexual]; its a
               spectrum (Woods).
            Yet there are arguments against homosexuality as caused by genetics. According to
               Darwins theory of natural selection, the advantageous traits are passed on, while
               the disadvantageous ones eventually die out. For instance, heterosexual males have an
               average of five times as many children as homosexual ones, as a female is required to
               reproduce children, yet homosexuals are, by definition, not sexually attracted to
               females. Therefore, from the evolutionary standpoint, homosexuality becomes one of
               the disadvantageous traits. Because consequently heterosexual men contribute five
               times as much genetic information to the next the gene pool, if homosexuality was
               indeed caused by a gene, it would have died out entirely by now, or at least been
               reduced immensely in the number of occurrences. Since neither of these events have
               yet taken place, it can be concluded that homosexuality is not caused by a gene
               (Fulkerson).
            My findings throughout my research have led me to conclude that there is no
               definitive answer on what causes homosexuality. No one knows for sure now (although
               many think they do), and perhaps no one ever will know the whole truth. Nonetheless,
               I am apt to believe that homosexuality is the product of some kind of combination of
               genetic and environmental causes. Perhaps one may have a genetic predisposition
               towards homosexuality that has been passed on from previous generations. However this
               does not necessarily determine a homosexual; rather this predisposition must be
               triggered by environmental factors. This is why Bailey and Pillard found in their
               study that while they was a greatly elevated chance that two males sharing the same
               genetic makeup would also share the same sexuality, this was not the case 100 % of
               the time. This seems to be the most likely explanation as of now, but even as I write
               this, new studies are being done. Perhaps the truth is right around the corner.
            
               Works Cited 
               APA Online. 2003. American Psychological Association. <http://www.apa.org>. 
               Bailey, J. M., and R. C. Pillard. "A Genetic Study of Male Sexual Orientation."
                  Archives of General Psychiatry 1089-1096 (1991). 
               Dobbens, James B. Telephone interview. 6 June 2002. 
               Emond, Charles. Mountain Pride Media. June 1999.
                  <http://www.mountainpridemedia.org>. 
               Fulkerson, Richard. Nature and Nurture. 15 Dec. 1999. Iowa State University.
                  <http://www.public.iastate.edu>. 
               Homosexuality. Ed. William Dudley. San Diego: Greenhaven P, 1993. 
               Isay, Richard A. Being Homosexual. New York: Farrar Straus Giroux, 1989. 
               Marcus, Eric. Is it a Choice? San Francisco: HarperCollins, 1993. 
               Wikholm, Andrew. gayhistory.com. 1998. <http://www.gayhistory.com>. 
               Woods, Daniel S. Telephone interview. 6 June 2002. 
            
         
      
   

   
      
         
            Amanda Bates
            November 11, 2008
            Madame White Snake: East Asian Femme Fatale of Old
            The Chinese legend of Madame White Snake, the snake demon that takes human form and
               becomes the wife of a man, has exerted a lasting influence over East Asian folktales
               and fiction for centuries. Two quintessential novellas, The Lust of the White
               Serpant from Ugetsu Monogatari by the Japanese author Ueda Akinari and Eternal
               Prisoner under Thunder Peak Pagoda a traditional Chinese story, are both relatively
               complex and demonstrate not only the evolution of the White Snake figure to become a
               more believable human, but also what aspects may have given her enduring appeal.
               While both these stories are ostensibly morality tales about the dangerous beauty of
               this femme fatale, the true source of pleasure from these narratives is the femme
               fatales transgressive behavior, not her eventual punishment for it.
            Early tales of Madame White Snake appeared in China as early as the Song Dynasty, and
               initially her portrayal was fairly direct, as a villainous demon who drains the life
               force out of her human husband.
                  Lai, Whalen. "From Folklore to Literate Theater: Unpacking "Madame White
                     Snake"." Asian Folklore Studies 51, no. 1 (1992): 52.
                But over time, characterizations of her became more complex, and the persona
               of Madame White Snake became more sympathetic, and perhaps even a model of the ideal
               Confucian wife, particularly in Pagoda. Whalen Lai notes, She was a loving wife, a
               caring mother, rescuer of her family from the first flood, and, at that point, a
               general benefactor of man. She took on the virtues of a traditional Chinese female,
               particularly forbearance.
                  Ibid., 53.
                But if she were really an ideal wife, why could she not live happily with her
               human mate? Her dangerous sexuality is the key.
            Femme fatale might seem an unusual term to apply to a character from pre-modern
               Chinese and Japanese literature who may exemplify the virtues of an ideal Confucian
               wife, since it is primarily associated with film characters, particularly those of
               the film noir genre. But this term, which is relatively speaking, a neologism (The
               earliest uses were around the beginning of the 20th century
                  Oxford English Dictionary, Femme,  Oxford University Press,
                     http://dictionary.oed.com/cgi/entry/50083541/50083541se3?single=1&query_type=word&queryword=femme+fatale&first=1&max_to_show=10&hilite=50083541se3
               ), is an apt description of the depiction of Madame White Snake and all her
               incarnations. It refers to a woman who is dangerously attractive, and lures men to
               their downfall with her sexual attractiveness. In both incarnations of Madame White
               snake, the authors depict her as bewitchingly beautiful. Toyoo, her human lover in
               Lust of the White Serpant cannot shake the image of her beauty from his mind and
               dreams of her, and finds himself disturbed and agitated by her ethereal
                  beauty.
                  Ueda, Akinari. Ugetsu Monogatari : Tales of Moonlight and Rain : A Complete
                     English Version of the Eighteenth-Century Japanese Collection of Tales of the
                     Supernatural. Vancouver: University of British Columbia Press, 1974,
                     162-164.
                In Eternal Prisoner, Madame White Snakes bewitching beauty follows her
               lover Hs into his dreams, and the next morning he was so distracted that he could
               not concentrate on doing business.
                  Eternal Prisoner under the Thunder Peak Pagoda. Trans. Diana Yu, in Y. W. Ma
                     and Joseph S. M. Lau. Traditional Chinese Stories : Themes and Variations.
                     Boston: Zheng & Zui Co, 1986, 358.
                Both of these stories align negative connotations with her beauty, suggesting
               that her sexuality is the cause of their distraction.
            In addition to distracting sexuality, the irregular characterization of Madame White
               Snake might be another trait her character has in common with the archetypical noir
               femme fatale. In her essay analyzing the noir film from a feminist perspective,
               Christine Gledhill writes Not only is the hero frequently not sure whether the woman
               is honest or a deceiver, but the heroines characterisation is itself fractured so
               that it is not evident to the audience whether she fills the [femme fatale]
               stereotype or not.
                  Christine Gledhill, Klute 1: A Contemporary Film Noir and Feminist Criticism,
                     in Feminism and Film, ed. E. Ann Kaplan (New York: Oxford University Press,
                     2004), 81.
                While both stories each characterize Madame White Snake fairly consistently
               within their narratives, the uneven characterization in film noir perhaps mirrors the
               evolution of her character over time: readers may not be sure whether she is a pure
               villainess or whether she is a good wife who is badly treated by society, because
               there is evidence of both throughout her legend. She is a loyal wife to her husband
               as she has promised, but she also causes him to find trouble with the law and
               deceives him about her supernatural nature.
            The complications in her character serve to undercut the ostensible didactic intent
               of these stories. A simple reading of the story might produce the idea that Madame
               White Snake represents dangerous female aggression and sexuality that traps the man,
               and she must be defeated and punished by society. This is quite similar to the
               expected end for the femme fatal character in films - she is punished in some way so
               that social order and proper gender roles are restored. In both stories, Madame White
               Snakes secret is uncovered and a monk comes to exorcise her, and she is eventually
               rendered powerless and trapped under a pagoda. Her husband becomes a monk, and this
               further implicates Lady White Snake, this time from a Buddhist perspective. Female
               beauty is a dangerous thing that ties men to the transitory world and prohibits them
               from being free from desire and ascending to Nirvana. Furthermore, Lady White Snakes
               lover is far from the ideal man. He is weak-willed and not particularly useful. In
               Lust, the priest informs Toyoo Those creatures took advantage of your fair looks
               and tempted you. But you, yourself, owing to a lack of courage and spirit, fell
               victim to their temporary form 
                  Ugetsu Monogatari, 177-178.
               . The implications of this are that a stronger, more capable man would not
               fall for the Ladys trickery. But are the morals of these stories entirely sincere?
               If they were, Madame White Snake would be unmistakably depicted as an evil
               character.
            Instead, both these stories feature many moments where readers have great sympathy
               for her, despite her depraved sexuality. Certainly, readers admire her patience and
               loyalty: I searched everywhere, and now that at last Ive found you, Im very
                  happy,
                  Ibid.,173.
                she gushes to him in Lust. Readers must also acknowledge that her human
               lover is breaking his promise to her when he leaves her. She pleads with him, We
               have a love bond between us, as constant as the Tai Mountains and the Eastern Sea,
               and we must live and die together. Please, since we are already married, take me
               back, and lets stay together the rest of our lives. Wouldnt that be
                  wonderful?
                  Eternal Prisoner, 369.
                In another traditional vernacular story, Tsu Shih-Niang Sinks the Jewel Box
               in Anger,
                  Tu Shih-Niang Sinks the Jew Box in Anger, trans, Richard M. W. Ho, in Y. W.
                     Ma and Joseph S. M. Lau. Traditional Chinese Stories : Themes and Variations.
                     Boston: Zheng & Zui Co, 1986, 358.
                the male protagonist breaks a promise he made to his concubine lover, and
               suffers for it, suggesting that traditionally, loyalty and keeping ones word was
               valued on the mans part as well as a womans. So her husbands failure to follow
               through on his end of the bargain, completely forgetting the love he once had for
               her, makes readers more sympathetic to Madame White Snakes plight. 
            However, no matter how much sympathy Madame White Snake may gather from readers, the
               story still ends with her trapped under the pagoda. These stories draw from the long
               tradition of supernatural and ghost stories, which usually end with the demon
               destroyed or at least subdued. In the initial versions of this story Madame White
               Snake harmed her human lover, so her entrapment under a pagoda by a Taoist monk or
               later, a Buddhist monk
                  Lai, 53.
                would have been a satisfying ending. Readers of early versions of the story
               might have been cheering for the defeat of this demon disguised as a beauty, and
               would have enjoyed reading the stories for the lurid horror details and later her
               crushing defeat. Conversely, the authors of the two stories examined here do not give
               readers motivation to wish for the death of Madame White Snake, so the pleasure of
               the narrative - to borrow appropriate phrasing from film theory - comes not from the
               death of the insubordinate, disruptive force, from watching the transgressions
               themselves. 
            In an essay on the femme fatale heroines of film noir, Janey Place argues that the
               strong behavior of the female characters supersedes the moral lessons supposedly
               imparted by their morals at the end. She writes, the final lesson of the myth
               often fades into the background and we retain the image of the erotic, strong,
               unrepressed (if destructive) woman.
                  Janey Place, Women in Film Noir in Women in Film Noir, ed. E. Ann Kaplan
                     (London: British Film Institute, 2003), 48.
                In these two stories, the femme fatale Madame White Snake is going to live on
               in the minds of readers not as the shrunken snake trapped under a pagoda, but the
               sexy, aggressive woman who took a weaker human man as her lover. 
            This resistant reading of the text may be too colored by modern viewpoints, since it
               is impossible to know for certain what readers in the past enjoyed about these
               stories. However, consciously or unconsciously, these authors created a female
               character who fits the characteristics of a feisty heroine. In fact, Communists in
               the PRC in the 1970s reclaimed her as a feminist symbol for women who rebel against
               the patriarchy.
                  Lai, 52.
                Just as the dangerous femme fatale of noir films has reemerged as a heroine
               in her own right, rather than the sexy death trap for the male protagonist, so too
               Lady White Snake should be reclaimed for her sexual assertiveness and life slightly
               outside the bounds of conventional social expectations. 
         
      
   

   
      
         
            The Decline of the Northeastern Ohio Steel Market: Why Did Attempts by Union Leaders and Concerned Citizens to Revive the Steel Industry Ultimately Fail?
            
            An Extended Essay in History
            By Philosophy E. Walker
            Candidate Number: xxxxxxxxx
            Supervisor: Alexis Mamaux
            Date: January 12, 2004
            Word Count: 3215
            United World College of the American West
            Montezuma, NM
            87731
            USA
            September 19, 1977 is a date that few people in Youngstown, Ohio will ever forget. On that date Jennings
            Lambeth, president of Youngstown Sheet and Tube Company, announced that most of the steel companys Campbell
            Works would close. Although for other cities this would simply be a minor economic setback, for the people
            of Youngstown and the surrounding area, it meant disaster. Mahoning County was a one-industry area, and the
            people of Youngstown, Struthers, Campbell, Boardman Township, and the numerous other small towns and
            villages in the area only had one main employer: the steel mills. 
            The events that would follow this
            date (known as Black Monday) are seen by the people who witnessed them either as stories of great courage
            and determination or as monuments to human failure and false hope. Rather than sit back and wait for their
            jobs to be snatched away, the workers and local union members in the mills fought long and hard to be able
            to keep the factories open. Petitions, protests, rallies, collectivization, and even the takeover of a steel
            companys headquarters were all attempted in a desperate movement by those in the industry to preserve the
            only source of employment that this town had. These well-intentioned efforts ultimately failed, leaving
            thousands with shattered dreams and a distinct lack of trust in fellow humankind. 
            But why did the
            brave attempts by union leaders and concerned citizens to revive the steel industry ultimately fail? When
            examining the areas history, culture, and economic situation we can identify four main reasons: the refusal
            of the international leadership of United Steelworkers of America to support their unions Youngstown
            branch, the lagging international steel market, the lack of a clear, organized vision for individual
            initiatives such as the Save Our Valley Campaign, and crippling regionalism which caused animosity between
            different small towns in the region, all contributed in some way to the failure of the workers and union
            leaders to save the industry. Most importantly, the problem in Youngstown was a nationwide problem. Although
            it affected Youngstown and the surrounding area more than it affected other regions, the local people simply
            could not solve a national crisis on a local level. 
            
            A Brief History of Steel in Northeastern Ohio

In 1802 James and Daniel Heaton discovered ore and coal lining Yellow Creek in an area outside of Youngstown known as
Poland Township. Their blast furnace, Hopewell, was the very first blast furnace in the area. During the Civil War,
Youngstown played a vital role in supplying the Union army with iron products. Youngstown also was a major railway
crossroads, due to its strategic position between Cleveland, Pittsburgh, New York, and Chicago. In fact, More rail
cars passed under the Center Street Bridge [a major bridge in Youngstown] per day than any other location in the
country.

During the 19th century, the center of iron manufacturing had gradually shifted from the far East Coast
(Massachusetts and Eastern Pennsylvania) to the Ohio Valley Pittsburgh regions of the Northeast, including the Mahoning
Valley and the Hanging Rock region of Ohio and Kentucky. By 1880, Youngstowns population had grown to nearly 16,000,
which meant it had doubled in size over a twenty-year period. The town continued to prosper, driven by the flux of
immigrants pouring in with the hopes of employment at the mills. This prosperity continued until the late 1920s, when
the Great Depression hit the area hard. Despite the Congress of Industrial Organizations successful efforts to
establish a national steel workers union, the industry barely survived the Depression years. Finally, the outbreak of
the Second World War made iron and steel important again, and Youngstown was bolstered out of its economic standstill
into a fast-paced period of booming growth.

Youngstown may have been an important and prosperous region in the post-war period, but the seeds for its downfall
were slowly being sown. Strikes racked the town during the forties, fifties, and sixties, and they were often long and
bloody. In 1973, the Experimental Negotiating Agreement was signed. This prohibited strikes and lockout, angering
workers and driving productivity and laborer morale down. At the same time, stricter governmental standards for
environmental protection and the growth of imported steel were making it harder to produce and market American steel
parts, and the overeager shareholders in the companies stock were pushing for more and more of their share of the pie.
Most importantly, Youngstowns steel mills were slowly becoming less efficient and more expensive. Old technology was
not replaced, obsolete methods were not updated, and almost none of the industrys profits were being utilized to help
modernize. It was a recipe for disaster that would soon explode in the faces of hundreds of thousands of workers and
their families.

Black Monday and the Crash of the Steel Industry
The announcement of the closing of the mills in 1977 was the beginning of a downward spiral, which would send the
entire valley into chaos and ruin. Between 1977 and 1981, a total of five mills were closed and approximately 25,000
jobs were lost countywide. Meetings of union officials and mill bosses were hurriedly set up in an attempt to persuade
the powers that be to reconsider their statement. However, it was clear that, in the words of USWA president Lloyd
McBride, If you cant make a buck, you get out of the business.


The closings meant the end of Youngstowns only real industry, the end of its population growth, and then end of
economic progress. Without the mills, people sought other places of employment in adjoining states or even other areas
of the country. Those that could afford to move did so; those that couldnt afford to move mostly ended up on the
streets. Without an industrial or a residential base, commerce shrank considerably. It was becoming increasingly clear
that without the industrial base provided by the mills, the city of Youngstown would soon become a ghost town, inhabited
by those too poor or hopeful to escape. The workers decided they needed to do something to save their city, and so they
mobilized in a variety of ways.

Attempts to Save the Mills

The very first thing that the workers could do was to get up a petition to stop the shutdown, says Ed Mann, a local
union leader and organizer.  The petition was circulated, eventually including thousands of signatures; it was then
given to USWA representatives to present to President Carter in Washington. However, the representatives were shunted to
the side and ignored in Washington, since Youngstowns political influence had died with its industry.

The International chapter of the USWA had much more lobbying power, but they refused to support the local union
members. The petition was lost among paperwork and bureaucratic procedure.

Next, workers decided to form the Ecumenical Coalition, an organization of local religious groups which spearheaded
the attempt to reopen the Youngstown works. The Coalition drafter letters to the Lykes Company asking if a group of
workers might purchase the mill and run it collectively. Lykes ignored the letters, so the Coalition turned once again
to the federal government. Here, too, they were ignored. The Coalition had no proper funds to buy the mills, so they
could do nothing but sit back and watch as the mills closed. 
Finally, following the shutdown of US Steels plant in 1980, local union leaders congregated outside the US Steel
Headquarters in Youngstown. They invited local people and politicians to witness the scene, then charged the
Headquarters and took it over. The workers stayed there until the next day, when US Steel declared that they were ready
to talk about selling the mill. Immediately after the workers left the building, US steel representatives told the local
union leaders that they had changed their minds and were no longer interested in allowing the workers to purchase the
mill.

All these efforts eventually came to nothing, and Youngstowns steel mills remained closed. These attempts to save
the mills were hindered by several major factors, including the decline of the world steel market, which made American
steel impossible to sell or export.

The Decline of the World Market
The efforts to save the mills failed partly because the international market for steel had largely dried up. During
World War II the rest of the world was hungry for Americas iron and steel products; however, by the seventies no
foreign nations needed to import steel in such large quantities. In fact, American steel imports were beginning to
outweigh exports.

Foreign steel was easier and more efficient to make, and was often of higher quality than domestic steel. Foreign
steel companies invested in their factories, updating their technology and replacing their equipment often. This meant
that foreign facilities were more modern and efficient than any plants in America, and therefore were able to export a
more competitive product.

Foreign steel was also much cheaper. Wage hikes, although they helped to improve living conditions of steel workers
in the US, made American steel far more expensive. Also, international competitors drew on a large supply of very cheap
labor. Jobs were scarce in other steel-exporting countries, and labor laws were either non-existent or allowed employers
to pay much less for work. Labor costs in America continued to go up, draining US companies of their resources, while
companies overseas were able to cut labor costs and put that money back into updating and renovating their facilities.

On a worldwide scale, newer materials such as aluminum, plastic, and composites were beginning to substitute steel
both at home and abroad. Steel demand worldwide was beginning to decline, and it affected both domestic and foreign
companies. However, to American companies already suffering financial setbacks, outdated machinery, and fierce
competition, this lack of demand was an inconvenience they could not afford. Americas steel remained unsold, flooding
the world market with inferior products that no one wanted to buy.

Since this problem was a national one rather than a local one, the problems that were occurring in Youngstown were
not unique. Youngstown was perhaps hit harder than any other town by the collapse of the steel industry, but it was not
alone. The problem was a national one, involving many more mills and issues than Youngstowns alone. J. Philip Richley,
a union member and organizer of many attempts to save 5the mills, has summed it up thus: You just cant solve a
nation-wide problem in a single city. The decline of the world steel market affected not just Youngstown but the
entire steel community in America. Trying to prop up one citys mills was impossible when faced with the depression that
spread throughout the entire industry.

The Save Our Valley Campaign: Lack of Funds and Plans
Eventually, some religious leaders involved in the Ecumenical Coalition joined forces within community members and
former steel mill employees to create the Save Our Valley Campaign. As the name suggests, local leaders wanted to
instill the people of Youngstown with a fierce sense of urgency, driving them forward to confront steel companies and
owners and help secure the future of the region. Marches, speeches, and letter writing were all employed to help
stimulate the Campaign and rally the people.
But the Campaign was bogged down heavily by the lack of proper funding. The people of Youngstown, being now
unemployed had very little money to spend on anything but staying alive. College tuition, clothes, food, and heating all
had to come before donations to non-profit organizations. People outside of the area had no personal investment in the
mills, and so it was difficult to convince anyone from out of the county to contribute funds. The lack of money proved
to be crippling, because it prevented the organizations involved from purchasing the mills to run collectively. Without
funds, the Save Our Valley Campaign could do nothing major to help salvage the citys dying economy.

The Save Our Valley Campaign also lacked one essential component: an actual concrete plan. No one seemed to know
just how to go about fixing the problems. Letters and petitions were all very well, but they did little to improve the
situation. People clung to vague ideas of worker collectivization, but no one could really fathom exactly how that would
work; the people of Youngstown were, after all, not particularly familiar with socialism or collectivization in general.
Beyond that, no one knew how they should proceed: everyone knew that saving the mills was important, but nobody stepped
forward with a full-fledged plan to do it without losing huge amounts of money and dragging even more people down.
Without a real plan, nothing could truly be achieved.

Without funds to drive the efforts, or even a real plan of action, the Save Our Valley Campaign did more harm than
good. In effect, it raised the hopes of workers without having any real chance at saving anything. People became excited
and waited for the mills to reappear, but they never did. The Campaign failed to save any jobs and Youngstown was
plunged into economic chaos.

The Apathy of USWA

United Steel Workers of America was the union representing the Youngstown steel workers when the closings hit.
Initially many assumed that their union would take a lead role in fighting for the recovery of their jobs. However, it
soon became clear that although the local union leaders were prepared to fight, the international branch was not. The
higher levels of the union became increasingly disassociated with Youngstown and its plight, attempting to shut out the
appeals from workers and local union representatives and to ignore what was really happening.

Actually, one main reason for the behavior of the USWA was that union leaders really had no idea what to do. No one
had ever seen a shutdown of this magnitude and rapidity before, and none of the leaders of USWA, not even president Lynn
Williams, knew what could be done. It was clear to everyone that the economic fallout from this series of closings
would be one of the worst in US history, and so without any real precedents the union leaders were flustered. Rather
than try and come up with some sort of scenario, the USWA simply ignored what was going on in Youngstown, hoping that
perhaps the problem would resolve itself, or at least not spread any further than it already had.

Besides incompetence, the USWA had one other major reason for rejecting their local counterpart: fear of socialism.
Obviously the union itself was not afraid of socialist action, but they worried that the federal government might see
the efforts of Youngstown workers to collectivize as a movement towards socialism and perhaps even communism. If the
USWA supported the efforts to revive the mills and encouraged worker control and ownership of the factories, then the
government (and potentially other important people and institutions as well) might begin to think that the UWSA leaders
were encouraging socialism. This would mean that UWSA would lose credibility with the American government and its
people, something they could not afford to do. Therefore, they decided to withdraw support and let the local branch
fight it out alone.

Regionalism

From its very first days the Mahoning Valley has been an area packed with small villages and hamlets. Youngstown is the
name of the major city area, but surrounding it on all sides are small communities which to the casual viewer are
indistinguishable from the main city itself. Boardman, Poland Township, Struthers, Lowellville, Warren, Lordstown,
Canfield, Niles, and many other towns and districts are crowded around Youngstown (see Figure 3). People from each town
work, shop, eat, and socialize in towns separate from their own, making each town strongly dependent on every other
town. However, although traffic is heavy between each separate district, each area has its own distinct cultural
ethnicity, educational system, heritage, history, and even food. For example, Struthers is a poor town with a large
Slovak population, where education is generally better than in surrounding towns, but unemployment is much higher and
pollution is widespread. Most people in Struthers are either Orthodox or Baptist. Two blocks over one finds Boardman, a
well-off township with a reputation for rich but unsuccessful schools. Its residents are mainly Italian and Roman
Catholic, with a small concentration of Methodists on the east side. Unemployment is low in comparison with surrounding
towns, and the streets are clean and well kept. With many more cultures, religions, and economic levels living in close
proximity to one another, a curious phenomenon has overtaken the area: regionalism. Each town, with their own identity,
instills a strong regionalistic feeling within their respective populations, which dictates many habits, exchanges, and
interactions between populations. Oftentimes this regionalism takes the form of bizarre forms of hatred, with certain
towns becoming sworn enemies of others.

With so much regional tension, it became very hard for workers to unite under a common cause, even one that would
save their jobs and their futures. Workers from Poland Township would refuse to attend rallies with workers from
Campbell, and citizens of Struthers would become suspicious of people from Boardman, even if they were supposed to be
working towards the same thing. A lack of cooperation became a crippling problem for the movement, because no one was
willing to put aside regional differences to work together. In some instances, small companies would express interest in
helping the movement or in relocating their business in the area, but because of regional pride no one could ever agree
where the new businesses should relocate. In this way the people of the Mahoning Valley missed many opportunities for
new industrial or commercial lifeblood because of arbitrary arguments where the goal was simply to protect regional
pride.

Conclusion: The Aftershock and the Significance of Black Monday
 
Black Monday was a devastating blow to an entire generation of people. The efforts to avoid catastrophe after the fact
were unsuccessful for four main reasons: the failure of the international steel market, the lack of funds and plans in
initiatives such as the Save Our Valley Campaign, the refusal of the USWA to support their local chapter out of
ineptitude and fear, and the absurd but very real regionalism which corrupted solidarity efforts and drove away any hope
for brining in new companies.

What happened in Youngstown may not seem significant on an international or even on a national level, and perhaps it
is not. But to the thousands of people living there, the loss of the mills was a devastating event that sent shock waves
through their economic, political, and social futures. Because of the mills and their conspicuous absence, hundreds of
people were uprooted, forced to leave their homes and tightly knit communities. Hundreds more joined the unemployment
lines, or even began living on the streets. For the people of Youngstown, Black Monday was not just a historical event-
it was the most important event in their lives.


The steel workers who tried to save their jobs and their lives were part of something greater than themselves, something
which would endure long after they had moved away and moved on. Even though they eventually failed, the fact that they
tried to preserve what they felt belonged to them is an amazing example of how far people will go to save their lives
and the futures of their children.

              
      
   





The Apartment
g2 (la pianista irlandesa)
2008-11-09T14:05:29Z
ID: 45720
Prequels: 45719

Sequels: 45722


The apartment was nice, for its size. A bookcase lined one wall, crammed with hundreds of volumes, files, and notebooks. A few small crates had been converted into a filing system of some sort, filled to the brim with papers, clippings, and who knows what else.
A nearby table was cluttered with pages of scribbled diagrams and figures, alongside contraption of a singular sort. A mismatched set of chairs sat facing a small fireplace. A harmonica sat glinting on the mantlepiece.
Make yourself comfortable, Sheila said carelessly, but still studying me intently with those penetrating brown eyes. Your bedrooms down on the far right, in the corner. I expect your things are outside?
I nodded.
Well, I suggest you move them inside; one never knows what neighbors will do. Here, Ill help you.
Thanks, but theyre all really heavy...
Nonsense! I insist.
The ease with which she picked up two of my jammed suitcases nearly put me to shame.


On Her Own
lovinglife307
2008-11-09T14:10:25Z
ID: 45721
Prequels: none

Sequels: 45789


Hello Marie.
What was that? I looked around me feverishly. No one called me Marie anymore. My mum was the only person to-
Have you missed me?
I spun around, certain the voice was coming from behind me. All I saw was blackness. I shivered, sure something was crawling up my spine.
Ive missed you.
I felt a hand grab my shoulder, and then suddenly-
Next stop Bloomfield, New Jersey.
Ohh... I sat up, rubbing my eyes with the palms of my hands. I was so tired. I had a right to be tired.
I had just traveled about two hundred and sixty miles, for approximately four and a half hours across the bottom of New Hampshire, through Massachusetts, Connecticut, part of Pennsylvania and now finally I was arriving in New Jersey.
I was so tired, I almost considered going back to sleep, but I remembered I had to get off soon.
Wait, why should I get off? Ive come this far, I should just keep going.
Oh, no you dont. Were here for a reason. Remember Grandma Rosalie.
I remember. I could never forget.


Deductions, Deductions
g2 (la pianista irlandesa)
2008-11-09T14:24:52Z
ID: 45722
Prequels: 45720

Sequels: 45734


I trust you had a safe flight, dismal as the airline was? I nodded. How can you tell that? I could tell the moment you walked in. Not only was the dust on your shoes suggestive, but you smell faintly of jet fuel & inferior peanuts. That, & your boarding pass is sticking out of your pocket with the airlines name facing out. I laughed. Was it really that easy? Of course. Can you tell anything else? She studied me intently once more. Id have to get used to that. Well, youve been well off; have been walking a great deal as of late; are a frequent writer and are a lefty. Thats all I can tell. I nearly fell out of my chair. How...? Not many lower people, including myself, going around wearing a Rolex like that. I could see your shoes have been worn a few milimeters, but the canvas is fairly new. As far as the writing goes, youve a considerable amout of ink & graphite on the side of your left hand. Youre a genius! I cried. She shook her head & smiled. Deductions, my friend.


Serenity in the Music
lovinglife307
2008-11-09T15:09:51Z
ID: 45723
Prequels: 45700

Sequels: none


Hey. A girl, sixteen years old, with masses of bright red hair and big gray eyes opened the door. She snapped her gum, leaning comfortably against the doorway. Loud music sounded from inside.
Hey, Beth. I walked up the pathway and into Beths mansion of a house, pulling at my camisole nervously. Was I ever going to get over being around her? I held in a sigh. Probably not.
Everyones downstairs. Get yourself a beer. Beth pointed down the stairs, to where the music was blasting from. I strode over to the opening. I looked back over my shoulder, seeing if she was coming, but Beth was already on the couch, absorbed with a cute junior. I sighed, out loud this time. She didnt notice.
I descended the stairs quickly. I couldnt wait to just let go. I was always the life of the party after a few beers. Plus, I didnt feel any pain of any sort when I was at these loud parties. It was funny actually. I found serenity in the booming music.


Regular Routines
lovinglife307
2008-11-09T15:18:34Z
ID: 45724
Prequels: 45646

Sequels: none


I was floating on a cloud. I was sure of it.
There was nothing under me, nothing over me, and nothing around me. Nothing anywhere. I sighed happily. I didnt want it to stop.
The report wasnt hard, I had already read the book, and so I just jotted down a few notes for him. He told me he would finish it later.
We kissed more, sitting there, side by side on the couch. We really got into it, pushing my hands through his hair, his hands all over me. He pushed his hand under the edge of my shirt, and I didnt notice until his cool hands touched my chest.
I pulled away abruptly, jerking upright.
What are you doing?
Oh, cmon Cassie. You know you want it.
Um, no, I do not.
He grabbed my wrist and pulled me back down on top of him. I jerked away. Stop it Matt!
He kissed my sloppily on my neck, as I tried to throw myself off him. I jerked free and ran. I just ran. I didnt know where. I just needed to get away.


Evelyn Might
THX 0477
2008-11-09T15:31:02Z
ID: 45725
Prequels: 45667

Sequels: none


Good, came a disembodied voice from deep in several shadows at once.
Great, I countered. Rather than really engage, I tried to take better stock of the situation. Brian was conscious but totally out of it, the poor guy. His technical expertise had been invaluable in the past weeks, but he just didnt have the stomach for the rough stuff. Evelyn was...
You know what we want, interrupted the voice, booming and echoing through the stark environment of the industrial complex. It had seemed like such a great base of operations at the time.
I hate when they say that, I thought, I never know what they want.
Yeah, sure, I tossed back into the shadows carelessly, but lets pretend I dont. If only I could keep them talking long enough for Evelyn to wake up, then she might...well, she might...
The device, Mr. Red.
And I suppose you expect me to just hand it over? That was actually quite unlikely, since I had no idea which device they meant.
We had a lot of devices.


Bonfire
XxjerseyxgirlxX
2008-11-09T17:18:21Z
ID: 45726
Prequels: none

Sequels: none


The group started to get up, walking to their cars that awaited them in the parking lot. One by one, they got up from their spot on the sandallowing their eyes to leave the fire,letting it burn out by itself.
Two people were left, in their winter coats and denim jeans, sitting, watching the fire die out...Only three cars were left in the lot. A girl yelled, catching their attention. They looked at each other and got up, wiping the sand from their legs. The walked off the beach together, arms linked, as the last car pulled away.
The boy walked the girl to her car. Silence. Before she stepped inside, she looked into his dark blue eyes, and said goodbye.
He stepped away as the car backed up. He jumped in his own car and turned the engine on.
As he turned away from the beach, he saw the last flame of the fire, what used to be so huge he was afraid they wouldnt be able to put it out, go away forever.


Bonfire
XxjerseyxgirlxX
2008-11-09T17:19:10Z
ID: 45727
Prequels: none

Sequels: none


The group started to get up, walking to their cars that awaited them in the parking lot. One by one, they got up from
their spot on the sandallowing their eyes to leave the fire,letting it burn out by itself. Two people were left, in
their winter coats and denim jeans, sitting, watching the fire die out...Only three cars were left in the lot. A girl
yelled, catching their attention. They looked at each other and got up, wiping the sand from their legs. The walked off
the beach together, arms linked, as the last car pulled away. The boy walked the girl to her car. Silence. Before she
stepped inside, she looked into his dark blue eyes, and said goodbye. He stepped away as the car backed up. He jumped in
his own car and turned the engine on. As he turned away from the beach, he saw the last flame of the fire, what used to
be so huge he was afraid they wouldnt be able to put it out, go away forever.


Getting Lucky
K
2008-11-09T17:28:10Z
ID: 45728
Prequels: none

Sequels: none


You rub her back as she sniffles, tears soaking into your hoodie. "I hope you're enjoying junior year while it lasts,"
she mumbles bitterly, pulling out of your embrace. Her eyes are rimmed red, with dark bags under them, testifying her
exhaustion. "I should be doing my God damn English homework." Her hands dance in mid-air, looking for where she left her
pen and paper before her breakdown interlude.

"You should be sleeping, you tell her, pushing strands of blonde hair
away from her face. You let your finger tips play across her features, traveling from tear stained cheeks up to heavy
eyelids.

"Is my lazy eye getting googly?" she asks, half a smile gracing her face.

"A little," you respond with a grin.

"No wonder I see six of you," she teases. "And here I thought I was just getting lucky."


Copy Ficlet Challenge
Wyatt Aapr
2008-11-09T18:00:26Z
ID: 45729
Prequels: none

Sequels: none


Ive somehow managed to write 225 ficlets, to me its amazing. To thoses of you that have written 3, 4 and 500 ficlets or more its small potatoes. However, Ill throw out a Challenge. My last one drew so few writers I didnt pick a winner. Maybe this one will do better.
The Challenge is to write a sequel to another writers ficlet. But, not to anyone you have sequeled before, and it has to be a ficlet that has not been sequeled. Enclude the original ficlet name in your sequel.
Good Luck, and have fun. I will pick a winner on Nov. 27th (my birthday)


Prose of Priscilla, Poetry of Paralee
SaveTheUnicorns
2008-11-09T18:00:48Z
ID: 45730
Prequels: none

Sequels: none


If middle school was a kingdom, then Priscilla would surely be the queen. She was tall, graceful, pretty, and interacted well with people. She wore stylish, trendy clothes, and was the one that people strived to please. Priscilla was adored by the teachers, and she knew how to get what she wanted. Though she acted kindly and refrained from malicious acts of meaness most of the time, she still had a slice of vanity in her essence. She didnt quite fancy the idea of spending time with anyone deemed unpopular or stupid. Occasionally, she would volunteer her time for charity, but she didnt work the hardest. Yet whenever she did even the slightest good deed, a newspaper reporter always happened to be around. Despite the fact that she was deemed an intelligent beauty by many, and as much as she was one, the amazing truth still stood. As much as it appeared, she wasnt the greatest, or the purest, prettiest, or bravest. There was another who was all of this and so much more. Someday, all would see this.


Cocooned
Stovohobo
2008-11-09T18:04:41Z
ID: 45731
Prequels: 45697

Sequels: 45737


Contoured metallic parts glided and folded out over me, emerging from the wall and pushing me back in with them. The androids face was lost as I was suddenly plunged into darkness.
I screamed. I screamed for all I was worth, claustrophobia rampaging in my stomach like a terrified bull. My arms and legs vibrated, struggling like crazy to get free.
A voice, genderless and robotic, suddenly filled my head. Do nOt mO-ove. Ana-LYzing i-in  THREE -e,  TWO -oo,  WUH -un. A sharp blade of light blinded me for a split second, then moved down the rest of my body. I could see I was totally encased in metal. Claustrophobia started welling up again.
The bar of blue light retracted into the front of my shell, and with a sudden lurch, the pod hurtled upward. I was being shot to the top of the building, racing through its walls. It was all one gigantic machine.
Suddenly it stopped, and I had the sense I was very, very high up.


Stay For the Weekend
K
2008-11-09T18:09:26Z
ID: 45732
Prequels: none

Sequels: 45740


She ducks into your car, followed by a cloud of perfume and a burst of autumn air. Hi! she chirps, reaching across the center console to wrap her arms around your neck. Her blonde curls tickle at your face and you smile into her neck. In reality, you saw her two weeks ago, but it feels longer. You needed this- orange leaves and winding roads, the sound of her voice and the radio humming softly in the back of the car. You both take deep breaths, and you are off; scenery rolls by as the two of you chat endlessly. She laughs at your drunken tales and you roll your eyes at the boys who do not realize they are lucky to have her around. One day, Ill find someone, she sighs. If only she realized that she does not have to look very far....


You Can't Run on Crutches
Wyatt Aapr
2008-11-09T18:33:03Z
ID: 45733
Prequels: 45714

Sequels: 47466


Mable was the prettiest soiled dove at the Longhorn, so naturally Archie wanted to see what her bloomers looked like. He couldnt afford anything else she might have to offer, but lookin at her bloomers was free.
Archie picked up his crutch, and slowly and carefully, followed Wilber down the alley. They had to maneuver around the small pile of broken rail pieces. Wilber looked up and pointed to the landings broken rail,Someone aught a fix that afor someone gets hurt.
Archie mumbled, Idiot.
As they grew closer, they could see some lacy undies flapping in the breeze. Would you look at that, said Wilber.
Indeed, the colorful undies were a sight to behold. There were six pairs of panties, pink, red, black, purple, white with frilly lace and yellow.
Archie, lets steal us a pair, Wilber said as he overturned an empty whiskey barrel, climbed up and yanked two pairs of panties from the line.Here Archie, stick these in your pocket. Then a voice called out, Stop Thief! Wilber ran.


Profession
g2 (la pianista irlandesa)
2008-11-09T18:38:52Z
ID: 45734
Prequels: 45722

Sequels: 45885


Deductions? Of course. It is one thing to see, it is another entirely to deduce. One must be bold in deductions, must not be afraid of being wrong. But, if one is wrong? She shrugged. Scrap it & start over. But one always must first observe & gather the facts, then draw conclusions. Going in the other direction always bends facts to theories, & it always becomes distorted. Her face scrunched at the very thought. I wouldve continued, but an odd, siren noise rang out.Oh! Sheila exclaimed, reaching for her black Alias. A client, probably. Client? Oh, yes. You see, I like to keep my mind busy with small problems, & people will come to me for advice. Like a detective? She shot me a look. Im not associated with the official police. Huge difference between the two. She turned back to her phone. Ah yes, someones on his way over. I should probably not intrude... I started to get up.Nonsense! If anything youll be a help! But no matter now, because here comes our client.


Him and I
OMGitsBeckii
2008-11-09T19:01:39Z
ID: 45735
Prequels: none

Sequels: none


I am looking into the eyes of my friend. The one thing that cheers me up when I am sad. The thing I forgive when he does things that are bad. The thing I will love until the end. My dog, my friend. ~THE  END  ~


(Serial Killer Challenge) Curtains For Kitty
Kermitgorf
2008-11-09T19:05:24Z
ID: 45736
Prequels: 45717

Sequels: none


A maniacal laugh seemed so clich, but that is exactly what Cesar did as he stood before Millicent and her children, holding their kitten in his beefy hands.
"One twist is all it will take, so tell me, what's it gonna be?" Cesar said, "Tell your old pal Cesar where your old man is, or it's curtains for Kitty."
The girls cried. Their mother looked with contempt upon the loathsome slime bag holding their kitten.
The kitten would have to die before she would tell him where her husband was hiding.
He would threaten the girls next, she knew.
"Lady, your hubby saw me kill that last girl in the park. I watched him as he held her hand as she died. I know he saw me. He can identify me lady, I simply cannot allow that to happen. I will snap your daughters necks like little twigs," Casar said as he broke the neck of the kitten, it whimpered softly and went slack in his calloused hands.
He picked up the youngest child by the scruff of her neck and said, " Now tell me where he is."


Mental Coaching
g2 (la pianista irlandesa)
2008-11-09T19:06:04Z
ID: 45737
Prequels: 45731

Sequels: 45743


I couldnt see anything, I was awaiting the pit of my stomach to return. Everything happened so fast. Lining up angry wasps wouldve been easier.
I had no idea what was in store for me. The man had mentioned programming. What the heck did that mean? Was I going to be turned inside out? Was I going to be brainwashed? This felt like a science project gone wrong.
Horridly, horridly wrong.
Get a hold of yourself, Carter! one of my many internal voices yelled. Youll go crazy before anythings happened to you!
What does it matter? I tried to argue back.
Oh, it matters. You wanna keep your wits about you if they try to pull a fast one on you. Youve made it three days, right? You survived the before stages, right? You can survive now, just keep it together, man!
I nodded resolutely to no one in particular. But how was I going to keep it together?
I began murmuring under my breath, Always look on the bright side of life.
I didnt have too long to perk myself up. I heard metal doors opening.


oh.
band geek
2008-11-09T19:11:34Z
ID: 45738
Prequels: 45706

Sequels: 45741


We both laughed, and then stopped. An awkward silence filled the air, until I said, "What I can do, what you can do -- I think they are related somehow."
"What?"
"I mean, I can make other things move, you can make yourself move. Same action, different things."
He thought for a minute. "Yeah, you're right. That makes sense."
We both went quiet, then he said, "Have you always been -- you know, blind?"
"Yes."
"Oh."
'Oh' seemed to be his response to many things. I asked myself why I was even talking to him, why I'd even talked to him in the first place.
I didn't really have a reason.
Maybe we did have a connection, maybe our abilities were similar. Before today, I hadn't even known other people could do things like this.
How many more people out there had these abilities? If there was us, there were more. There had to be more.


The Acquaintance
Music-Hearted
2008-11-09T19:13:52Z
ID: 45739
Prequels: none

Sequels: 45742


I didnt really know Andrew Gail, and I guess I never will.
We went to elementary school together, actually. Albertson-Penny Elementary. He always seemed nice enough. I mean, he was kind of a jock, a student-council type, and thats not really my scene, but its not like I wanted him to die.
Did I ever talk to him? Well, I guess. I think we worked on a project together once. Look, Im the girl who plays piano for the choir concerts, and he was the one who the school practically made their poster child. We werent exactly of the same world.
I guess the poor guy got caught up in the high school experience. Who couldve seen it coming, though? Andrew Gail goes home one Friday night after the football game and blows his head off. Thats one hell of a twist.


Grey
K
2008-11-09T19:15:43Z
ID: 45740
Prequels: 45732

Sequels: 45783


When you return to the city one boring train ride later, it is stifling. The greyness if overwhelming; you should have known you would experience withdrawls from the color of home. You run to Starbucks to grab a Pumpkin Spice latte before delving into piles of schoolwork. Procrastination always was your forte. Your roommate drags you from the room after what feels like an eternity with promises of booze and boobs. You roll your eyes but willingly oblige; your term paper is not moving any further tonight. One drink too many finds you fumbling around in the dark with the leggy brunette from three floors up. In the blackness that is her dorm room, all you can see is the whites of her eyes. Your mind flits to the blonde; she is most likely sleeping at this hour. You should be sleeping too, but youre too busy trying to find the colors of the city.
You wake to another grey morning. Nothing matches the color of home.


wrong.
band geek
2008-11-09T19:17:26Z
ID: 45741
Prequels: 45738

Sequels: 45755


"So are they going to fix it?" he asked.
"I doubt it. They've said they could fix it before; never worked."
"Do you know what they're trying this time?"
"No -- they didn't exactly explain it. They just said people on Earth are interested in my ability.. and they might be able to fix it."
"Oh."
I stopped tapping the wall. The switch Karon told me about began taking effect, and I didn't have to hold myself down anymore. "So is anything wrong with you?"
"By wrong, you mean?"
"Like, I don't know, a side-effect. How I'm blind, you know."
"Not really. Things are going to be different for me, but nothing bad."
"Yeah.
My clock announced, "1:00 PM. Lunch."
I knew the voice was going to get annoying after a while. "Hey, um, do you want me to show you the way?" Theo asked.
"No, I remember," I said, stepping into the hallway.
There was enough gravity so that now, I could walk without floating up into the air. I didnt even know how they could create gravity in a spaceship.


The Friend
Music-Hearted
2008-11-09T19:40:33Z
ID: 45742
Prequels: 45739

Sequels: 45795


Me? Im Bobby. Huh? Oh. Bobby Erickson. Yeah, I knew him. Didnt everyone?
He was a good guy. Sophomore year, we were the only ones who made Varsity. He helped me out with Spanish and stuff. I dunno, its kind of weird to talk about him. None of the guys thought anything was wrong.
I mean, yeah, sometimes he would get all deep and stuff, you know? But, you know, wed get a can of beer in him and go hang out with everyone else and then he seemed okay.
Its weird now. Everyones trying to figure out what went wrong and crap. I dunno what to say. Yeah, if I knew he was messed up, I woulda said something. But Andys gone, and now we cant do anything about it.


Subject IL45094:  Status:  Analyzed
Stovohobo
2008-11-09T19:54:59Z
ID: 45743
Prequels: 45737

Sequels: 45745


A vast domed room slid into view as the doors of my pod retracted. My restraints unlatched and popped me out, sending me sprawling on the marble floor.
I was in the very top room of the tower, almost one hundred-fifty floors from the ground. Arched windows surrounded me, showing me absolutely terrifying views of the rest of the city. To the left was the Sears Tower, that looked more like the size of my arm from this height. To the right was the Main Control building, where the computers where maintained and supervised. And I was in the Chicago Office Tower No.  US14 , the main hub for every Chicago-based company, where business workers would plug in every day (for the sake of the economy, some menial jobs were left to humans, but only about two percent).
I was pulled out of my daydreaming by another emotionless voice. Subject  IL45094 : David Carter. Height: 62. Age: 24. Pulse: elevated; normal.  RBMI : 22. Mentally and physically healthy.
There was a whirring, then silence, and I was alone.


Remembering a Thank You
Dreamer
2008-11-09T20:17:03Z
ID: 45744
Prequels: 45445

Sequels: 45747


His fingers ran across the keyboard for a moment. He stared quietly at the screen for a moment, and then smiled, nodding to himself. I watched him move the mouse, saving the document and then clicking on internet explorer. I watched the screen switch to yahoo, and was silent as he sent whatever-it-was to himself. I examined his face in silence. There were deep bags beneath his eyes, and, as he turned to me, I could see how deeply worn he was from the lines on his face. With a jolt of shock, I realized he looked old.Drew? I whispered carefully. He stood up and walked toward me.Thank you, he croaked, his throat thick with exhaustion.Sure thing, I said, still whispering. Suddenly, in an unexpected movement, he hugged me. Shocked, I stood still for a moment and then hugged him back. What had happened last night?Thank you, he whispered again and I felt wetness as his eyes overflowed with tears. I realized that I was crying too. Cynthia had died at exactly seven this morning.


Mind Twistings
g2 (la pianista irlandesa)
2008-11-09T20:20:48Z
ID: 45745
Prequels: 45743

Sequels: 45750


It felt weird, being numbered like that.
Like I was just another thing.
Maybe I was just another unimportant thing. The world would go on spinning if I was gone.
I thought about the number the metallic voice gave me:  IL45094 .
I began twisting it in my mind, to occupy myself: Ill for five o nine fours... For nine or five, four lies... ill too, to for-ti-five forty nine isles...
When others were around, & I began spouting weird combinations of things like that, Id get sidelong glances, raised eyebrows, contorted expressions.
But now, it didnt matter.
My mind-twistings became verbal, ringing coldly off the windows. I spun in a giddy circle, for a moment completely oblivious to my situation. Until I heard sliding metal again. I dropped to the floor, dizzy. The man whod apprehended me scurried in, a long tape of figures in his hand.
Do that again.
My brow furrowed in confusion. What, spin in a circle?
He shook his head. No no, before that. With the numbers. Weve never seen anything like it.


Stovohobo's Ficlet Challenge the Fifth...No, Sixth?  Something.  Anyway, It's About Your Tag Cloud.
Stovohobo
2008-11-09T20:27:03Z
ID: 45746
Prequels: none

Sequels: 45772
45939
46160
46354
46854


Its been forever since Ive done a challenge, and I think its about time that I started one up again. Okay, so: click
on the home button, then look at Your Library. Youll see a spot labeled tags. If youre like me, and you use a
fair amount of tags (or a fair amount of ficlets), you might have somewhere in the neighborhood of 2,500. Problem is,
the tag page only shows as many tags as it can hold (meaning, for me, just numbers and as). And for the sake of
characters, my list here cant even go into the as: 1212 stories tagged with 131 story tagged with 19451 story tagged
with 2001 story tagged with 20011 story tagged with 31 story tagged with 3001 story tagged with 330891 story tagged with
3333 stories tagged with 4351 story tagged with 51 story tagged with 5-6 things1 story tagged with 6161 story tagged
with 666 Anyway, go onto that page and pick 7 tags. Then write your entry using those tags somewhere in the story.
Challenge ends on 12/1/08. This should be interesting...


Remembering Drew's Ending (Part 1)
Dreamer
2008-11-09T20:32:04Z
ID: 45747
Prequels: 45744

Sequels: 45748


My mom, naturally, was pretty freaked by the time we got back to Nebraska. But Paige was by my side the whole time,
helping me explain everything. And she stayed there for the rest of the year. Litterally. She was out of money because
of the two plane tickets (she insisted on paying Angela back) and she just couldnt pay her morgage anymore. My mother
welcomed her into our household with open arms. Eventually, when I got up the nerve, I showed Paige my memories. She
cried alot, and held onto me as we sorted through them, putting them all in order. I began writing about when Paige came
into my life, and she helped, writing down her own memories. Paige never ceased to amaze me with her dogged
determination to get things done. Before I knew it, we had written a book. She still insists that it was all my doing,
but I know better. Sure, I may have written most of it, but Paige was the reason why it was fully completed, and why
its sitting in store windows.


Remembering Drew's Ending (Part 2)
Dreamer
2008-11-09T20:36:44Z
ID: 45748
Prequels: 45747

Sequels: 45749


It was strange, having people read something that was so personal. But soon, we began recieving the letters. Letters
from people all over the United States. Teenagers, largely, but also adults. They were people who had gone through
similar trials we had. Paige, being who she was, set up a website where you could send us personal stories, bios, etc,
or just talk to us and the other people about everything. She named the website after our book: Remembering. It seemed
appropriate. We are both attending Nebraska State (by some miracle I was accepted), and working on year three. As for
Paige, Ive never had a closer friend. We connect on a level no one, I think, including me, will ever understand.
Through the years, Ive managed to learn more about her past, and help her as she helped me. But thats another story. I
dont know what the future will bring, but I know now that I have the strength to face it. And I wont be alone.


Remembering Paige's Ending (part 1)
Dreamer
2008-11-09T20:48:06Z
ID: 45749
Prequels: 45748

Sequels: 45751


There are several memories I wish I could share. So many happy times I spent with Drew as the years progressed from that
turbulent time in our Senior year. Sometimes its difficult to believe, as I look into Drews light face, that he was
ever that dark, depressed boy who wore nothing but black and listened to the same song over and over again. His
happiness continues to feed mine as we rebuild our lives. I dont think he knows just how much hes changed me. All he
ever talks about is how Ive changed him. Sometimes, I admit, I wish we had that vibrant sort of romance my new college
friends rave about having. But then I dont. I love Drew. I know that, and Ive always known that ever since I found him
waiting for me Christmas Eve night. And I know Drew loves me, even if he doesnt declare it constantly, or go out of his
way to make huge, public displays of it. Actually, a few of our friends dont even know were dating. But none of this
matters, because all that does matter is that we are together.









Paradoxical Behavior Unaccounted For
Stovohobo
2008-11-09T20:48:18Z
ID: 45750
Prequels: 45745

Sequels: 45759


It was...nothing, I said, confused. Then I shut up, remembering the Miranda Rights I heard on the holovisions from time to time: anything you say can and will be used against you. But I did have an idea. Forty...forty forty twenty-two? Forty minus nothing equals twenty-two, no, forty-nine.
The android furrowed its brows, an accidental computer trait that it had picked up from human behavior. It opened its mouth, but nothing came out. Then, Stage programming tests 345.9.35 proven incorrect: humans insusceptible to pattern-based programming.
Another voice. Searching status options...arrival: impossible.
The android looked confused again. Theory 345.6: human activity unpredictable/paradoxical?
Searching status options...arrival: impossible.
The robot looked confused again, and waddled mechanically out of the room. The section of wall closed behind it.
I understood little of what the computers said, but I had a feeling I won.


Remembering Paige's Ending (part 2)
Dreamer
2008-11-09T20:48:30Z
ID: 45751
Prequels: 45749

Sequels: none


I dont know what the future holds for us, but I know that it wont be easy. After growing up the way we did, how could I ever expect it to be? But we survived. More than that, we lived. Now, my greatest fear is not of the future, but my own past. I dont think I ever fully appreciated what Drew went through until I began the journey for myself. But thats another story. All I know now is how I work through everything, day to day. What tomorrow will bring, will come. And I will push on. And I will not be alone.


NaNoWriMo Novel: Ch.4 Last Class
.:band baby:.
2008-11-09T21:14:22Z
ID: 45752
Prequels: 45653

Sequels: 45753


I have my last hour with Edwin. All he can talk about, for a change, is how excited he is to be actually taking me on a date. I can't believe how excited he is. It is like he has suddenly let go of his past love, or at least decided to try and move on.
After class, I tell Edwin I'll catch him at home because I'm staying after. He says okay and then kisses my cheek quickly. I felt nothing, as if he were a grandma who has kissed my cheek a thousand times.
Seconds after Edwin was out of sight, Chris walks up. He smiles that million dollar smile of his and I feel my insides melt. Immediately warning bells go off in my head. It is not good that Edwin does nothing for me with a kiss and Chris does everything with just a smile.
"Ready to go?"? He asks. I can't remember how to talk so I just kind of stare at him. "Yo, earth to Hazel."?
"Oh, uh. Yeah, let me just stop at my locker."? I say, blushing in embarrassment.


NaNoWriMo Novel: Ch.4 Trip to the Lake
.:band baby:.
2008-11-09T21:15:37Z
ID: 45753
Prequels: 45752

Sequels: 45754


Chris laughs and makes a sweeping gesture, "After you, milady."?
I laugh and start walking towards my locker. Chris falls into step besides me. When we reach my locker, I put my books away and turn towards Chris. "Ready!"? I say.
"Let's go then."? Chris says. I follow him out the doors and to his car. He opens my door for me and helps me inside.
Crush came on half way to the lake and I immediately reached and turned it up. I start singing the chorus and then notice Chris looking at me.
"What?"? I laugh.
"Is it bad that I think you're cute when you sing?"? He says sheepishly and shrugs.
"It may be. You're messing with a very complicated girl, remember? Technically, I'm a married woman."? I say laughing.
"Not yet you aren't."? Chris says as we pull up to the lake. We get out and he takes my hand. "I have a surprise for you."?


NaNoWriMo Novel: Ch.4 Swing
.:band baby:.
2008-11-09T21:16:51Z
ID: 45754
Prequels: 45753

Sequels: 45785


"Really?"? I ask. "What?"?
He starts walking to a big oak, "I'll show you."?
"Ok."? I say. When we get to the oak I laugh. "A swing?"?
"I put it up just for you" Last night after I took you home."? Chris says. "Wanna get on?"?
"Sure."? I laugh as I sit down on the swing. Chris walks behind me and gently begins to push.


incapable.
band geek
2008-11-09T21:36:10Z
ID: 45755
Prequels: 45741

Sequels: 45756


I hated when people thought I was incapable of so much more than I actually was. I was different than ordinary blind people, if there was such a thing as ordinary blind people. People knew what I could do, yet they thought I wasnt able to do little things, like walking down a hallway.
I wasnt mad at Theo; he had no idea. He hadnt known me before today.
I still had a feeling Id known him longer than this, like Id known him my whole life.
Like a brother, almost.
I went into the room and sat down. Other people came in too, sitting in the other rows of seats. Then, a doctor pushed a small table in front of each of us.
It wasnt very much. There were some noodles, vegetables, and a bottle of water. Once I was finished, I headed back into my room.
I wanted to stay away from Karon as much as possible. Having no idea of what he planned to do to me actually mightve been better than knowing. I hated hospitals. All I could think of them doing for me was bringing me more pain.


same.
band geek
2008-11-09T21:39:15Z
ID: 45756
Prequels: 45755

Sequels: 45760


People tried to convince me to go through with all of the things doctors kept trying to fix by telling me "I can't imagine not being able to see. It must be horrifying! To not even see colors.."?
The thing was, I didn't feel as if I was missing out on anything at all. Colors were just an abstract idea; there's really no way to imagine seeing anything but the colors you can already see, now is there? It's really the same thing for me.
Someone came into my room- no, two people. "Hello?"? I asked.
"Hi,"? they both said in unison.
Their voices were both exactly the same, and I assumed they were girls, probably only eight or nine. They stepped up closer to my bed.
"Anything you want?"? I asked.
"We're just bored,"? one of them replied. "What's your name?"?
"Regan. What about yours? And your friends?"?
"I'm Julia,"? one of them said, followed by, "I'm Lucy."?


Eros and Psyche 14 - the Underworld
canadianwriter
2008-11-09T21:43:00Z
ID: 45757
Prequels: 45582

Sequels: 45761


Psyches hands trembled as she descended into the icy cold depths of Hadess realm. She couldnt see the spirits undoubtably floating around her, but she knew they were there. Finally she came to the Styx itself. Its awful waters were cluttered with the waste of humans  broken pottery, discarded farming tools, ruined jewelry. And there, leaning heavily on his pole, was Charon, the boatman. She hesitantly handed him the coin, and his dark, empty eyes invited her on the barge. When the barge landed on the opposite bank of the terrible Styx, Psyche clutched the cake she would need for the next horror. A few yards in front of her, growling and snarling, Cerberus sat with trails of drool hanging from his teeth. She tossed him the cake, picked up her skirts, and sped past his huge figure. Persephone herself was kind enough, for the wife of the King of the Dead. She thanked Psyche for coming down, filled a box with cosmetics for Aphrodite, and sent Psyche on her way. Too easy, Psyche thought.


sequel
strider
2008-11-09T21:46:31Z
ID: 45758
Prequels: 45383

Sequels: 45763


The bell rang and our snooty teacher walked in announcing himself. I spent most of the long class either glancing at the clock or glancing at Anna taking notes intently. I noted her eyes, her smile. Ive never seen one like it. Finally the bell to rang.So, my next class is, I looked at my schedule Algebra with Mrs. Coudrote. Ah, the Cood She said with a sly tone. I figured it was a nickname for the teacher. Down this hall. Follow me. I followed. Her walk was hypnotizing. I had to catch myself from standing and staring. I caught up to her side. As we turned the corner, I tried to think of something to say to continue a conversation. You do know your way around. I said, regretting words the second they left my mouth. She laughed. Yah, like I have been here awhile. Ill bet, I said. Anna began explaining the history of the school and soon I got lost within a few sentences but I didnt care. I loved listen to her talk. Her voice was soft and quick. I knew I was stuck on her already.


Vocal Impulses
g2 (la pianista irlandesa)
2008-11-09T21:46:33Z
ID: 45759
Prequels: 45750

Sequels: 45873


Well, I was alone again. I couldnt believe my little gimmick actually worked. Id won that battle.
But would I win the war?
That remained to be seen.
I began bobbing to some incoherant song that had lodged itself into my head. It was welcome company, really. It took shape; it was a favorite of mine: La Paga.
Then the foot tapping started; the finger snapping; the arm swinging; the actual singing along.
In short: total rocking out.
I got through most of the song, full-out dancing, when the man stormed through the sliding door again. I froze in mid-dance step.
What are you doing?! he asked, more confused than ever.
Rocking...out? I answered slowly, not sure what else to call it.
The android folded his arms, utterly stumped. One minute, you jumble numbers incoherently, but the next you send vocal impulses in a coherent pattern, in a manner you call rocking out? He shook his head. And yet you still function normally?
I shrugged. Bud, you got a heck of a lot more to learn about humans.


questions.
band geek
2008-11-09T21:46:49Z
ID: 45760
Prequels: 45756

Sequels: 45768


"Why are you both here?"?
"They didn't say. They just picked us up and we got on the spaceship. They said we were going to Earth! At least, that's what Mister Karon said."?
Both girls had a weird habit of finishing each other's sentences where the other left off. Probably twins.
"Why are you here?"? one asked.
"Well, I have an idea. It's not a big deal."?
"Is it your eyes?"?
"Part of it, yeah."?
These girls were much too curious about this. I didn't want to scare them with my own thoughts about what Karon could be planning.
"Are you blind?"?
"Yeah" I am."? So many questions.
I knew Theo had asked even more than this. When I'd been talking to him, though, I hadn't really noticed it. He'd wanted to know the things he asked about to understand more about me. The girls just asked out of curiosity.
I wasn't angry or annoyed; just a small realization Id had.
Another person came inside. "Girls, why don't you go back to your rooms for a little while?"?
It was Dr. Karon.


Eros and Psyche 15 - the Reunion
canadianwriter
2008-11-09T21:50:05Z
ID: 45761
Prequels: 45757

Sequels: 45762


As soon as Psyche had repeated the dreary process and stepped out of the Underworld, she breathed in the clean air. A musty smell clung to her lungs. She began to walk, slowly, back to Aphrodites house, when arrogance started to take over her. Very few living people had come out of the Underworld. Surely Aphrodite would let her see her husband again, and when that happened, she had to be presentable. She was sure her hair and face were a mess. Psyches eyes fell on the box of cosmetics. A little touch here and there couldnt hurt. She carefully cracked the box open  and collapsed. Eross voice was getting hoarse when he saw her lying on the ground, her form crumpled. He swept over to her body and picked her up in his arms. Foolish little Psyche, he murmured as he wiped the drug off her eyelids. Admiring her face once more, Eros opened his wingspan and flew off to Zeuss palace.


Eros and Psyche 16 - the Gift
canadianwriter
2008-11-09T21:58:26Z
ID: 45762
Prequels: 45761

Sequels: 45765
45766


Wrinkles formed in Zeuss hearty face as he agreed to Eross proposal. Your mother wont like it, he laughed, but she certainly cant say no to this! Eros pushed a very shaky Psyche up to Zeus, who promptly laid his hands on her shoulders. I, King of the Gods, grant you, Psyche the mortal, the greatest gift a god can give a mortal. Go now knowing you will live for eternity. Immediatley Psyches form began to shimmer, and Eros ran up to her, enfolding her in his arms and wings. Right in the nick of time, Aphrodite burst into the room. Get off her, my son! she shrieked. You have no right touching a mortal! Eros looked up at his enraged mother. But that is where you are wrong. She is not mortal  she is immortal, she is my wife, and we will get married the proper way. Aphrodite turned incredulously to Zeus for consolation, but he nodded his head. It is true, he replied. You cannot argue to the marraige of a god to a goddess. Defeated, Aphrodite sat down, and the happy lovers celebrated.


Pt 4: Babbling
Freedom
2008-11-09T22:03:00Z
ID: 45763
Prequels: 45758

Sequels: 45935


He was staring at me so intently, I smiled again nervously. And I'm not supposed to be the nervous one. I started babbling about the school and blahblahblah but he continued to stare with the cute little glimmer in his eyes. How sweet!
It's a bit obvious that he likes me now but that's okay. It'll only not be okay when Emmett comes back into the picture. I pushed the thoughts of my football player away and focused on the words coming out of my mouth.
Too bad, we reached the Algebra classroom quickly. He opened the door for me and I strolled up to the teacher. "Ah, Anna. Hello. What a pleasure."? The Cood said to me with a fake smile.
I motioned to Cameron and said, "You've got a new student. Now if you'll excuse me, I must get to class."? I told her in my sweetest voice and her smile got wider"like she was talking to a fucking angel or something. Whatever. I winked at Cameron before heading to my Geometry class, a level up. Naw, I shouldn't tell him. He might feel stupid. Stupid and cute though.


Something I wish I could Tell a Certain Someone
penguincaptain18
2008-11-09T22:07:45Z
ID: 45764
Prequels: none

Sequels: none


Of course I want to make out with you. Why do you even bother asking? Of course all I want to do is feel your arms wrapped around me. But it just cant happen today. Not today, maybe not tomorrow, maybe not ever.
Why you ask? Maybe because I value your life. Maybe because I dont want to be the reason why my father has to tear you to shreds. That could be it. The bigger question is why do you keep asking why? You know the answer. It doesnt change.
No Im not going with your crazy plan. Its crazy and going to get us both killed. Plus only a monkey would fall for President-elect Obama has ordered me to stay home today so youre just going to have to leave me home alone. No Im not sneaking a guy over. Thats crazy. You must really think my parents are stupid. Stupid, crazy, or maybe both.
Please dont make this harder than what it is. Please dont make me feel any guiltier about not being able to be with you. Its not fair. Especially since your the one who doesnt have time to make it official.


Eros and Psyche - the End
canadianwriter
2008-11-09T22:08:04Z
ID: 45765
Prequels: 45762

Sequels: none


In one of the happiest stories in Greek mythology, Love (Eros) and Soul (Psyche) were finally united. The story of Eros and Psyche is said to be the first fairy tell ever written, and most definetly the sweetest. Nothing can seperate the two, not even the tempermental, envious goddess of Love.
Some say the reason Eros is not in many myths was because Psyche kept him home all the time  he went from being mischevious and abusing of his power to a well-loved man (god?) with a wife. Others say Psyche never was granted immortality, and died in Eross arms, causing him immense and lasting sadness, but what kind of a story is that?


Eros and Psyche - the End
canadianwriter
2008-11-09T22:08:38Z
ID: 45766
Prequels: 45762

Sequels: none


In one of the happiest stories in Greek mythology, Love (Eros) and Soul (Psyche) were finally united. The story of Eros and Psyche is said to be the first fairy tell ever written, and most definetly the sweetest. Nothing can seperate the two, not even the tempermental, envious goddess of Love.
Some say the reason Eros is not in many myths was because Psyche kept him home all the time  he went from being mischevious and abusing of his power to a well-loved man (god?) with a wife. Others say Psyche never was granted immortality, and died in Eross arms, causing him immense and lasting sadness, but what kind of a story is that?


--confusing--
band geek
2008-11-09T22:27:52Z
ID: 45767
Prequels: 45587

Sequels: 45775


He was leading me in a different direction, I had no idea where.
The woman was there too, running next to us.
It was all in a daze.
It was as if I couldnt focus, couldnt seem to actually pay attention to my surroundings. I saw things, but couldnt react. I tripped over a log Grant and the woman had easily jumped over. I was scratched by thornbushes theyd dodged.
I saw the dogs, but didnt say anything.
They were running alongside us, trying to attack. I wanted to say something, was urging to scream out with all my will, but for some reason, nothing came out.
This really was like a movie, just like me watching another version of everything around me, while the real me was in a parallel episode, just watching the other one.
It was a little weird. The me in both scenes was screaming at the other me to say something, to warn them.
Confusing.
We ran out into the road after Grant noticed them too. In plain sight.
We werent hidden anymore.


angry.
band geek
2008-11-09T22:31:50Z
ID: 45768
Prequels: 45760

Sequels: 45769


"Okay, they giggled, and ran down the hallway.
He shut the door and sat down in a chair next to my bed. "Hello Regan. You seem to be adjusting well to your room."?
"Why those girls? Why Theo?"? I asked quickly.
"Those two have a very" interesting ability. They can be pretty useful once they learn to control it."?
"Useful? What do you mean, useful?"?
"Could mean many things, could mean nothing. Who knows? Anyway, I came in here to talk about-"
"Answer my question!"? I yelled angrily.
"Not now. It's too confusing to get into now."?
I hated how, no matter how rude and angry I could be, Karon would always stay so calm. It only seemed to make me angrier.
"What I wanted to explain,"? he continued, "is the issue of your eyes. I've already told you we have the ability to fix it. Do you want to know about the procedures?"?
"No,"? I said immediately.
"No? Why not?"? he asked, concerned.
"Just NO. I turned on my side so I wouldn't have to face him anymore.


run.
band geek
2008-11-09T22:35:07Z
ID: 45769
Prequels: 45768

Sequels: 45827


"Regan, I need to tell you-"
"Please, just leave,"? I whimpered.
"Regan-"
"GO!"? I shouted, as the bed beneath me shook.
My thoughts were racing. Doctor Karon didn't know when enough was enough. "Regan, calm down."?
"I won't" I can't,"? I muttered, clenching my teeth.
Why was this making me so angry? I was picturing something horrible, something on its way to kill Karon.
"Run, can't you  HEAR  me?"?
"You won't do it,"? he said affectionately. "You can't do it."?
My mind took this as a challenge, something I had to prove wrong. "Get out of here."? My voice took on the monotonous tone it always does when I'm about to use my ability.
"Regan-" he put his hand on my shoulder. "Calm down."?
Why did he act so understanding? He didn't know  ANYTHING , yet he was still trying to "comfort' me. I just wanted to be left alone!
My started breathing faster, and my ears throbbed with pain. This only happened to me once before, when I just couldn't control anything.


Vandals' Vamps
Tangerine
2008-11-09T22:41:36Z
ID: 45770
Prequels: none

Sequels: none


Through the fog created by tubes of addictive hell where the linger glares of people-who-shouldnt-care. Why were they staring at me? Though at first glance they might  SEEM  to be my contemporaries who where going to school while I was not, but who was worst; the girl minding her own business at the edge of the woods, or the 16 year olds smoking outside the school.


We're Crazy (For Each Other)
RainDance
2008-11-09T22:48:36Z
ID: 45771
Prequels: 45640

Sequels: 45905


The bowl of popcorn was settled between them, rather awkwardly at best. Both Chloe and Alex decided to fully immerse themselves in the film on the screen to try and deny themselves the truth in what had happened just minutes ago.
For 3/4 of an hour they were sucessful. Each one pretended that the other was only a figment of their imagination. Until the moment they both reached into the bowl and found not only popcorn kernels but the cool touch of the others skin. Alexs fingers lingered in the bowl while Chloe quickly withdrew her hand. From that point on, neither friend could focus on the movie. As though suddenly inspired, Alex grabbed the bowl and placed it on the table with a sheepish grin.
That was bothering me, he told Chloe honestly. Chloe attempted to muffle a laugh.
What? Alex asked worriedly, Whats funny?
It was bothering me, too! she burst.
Alex chortled nervously. Chloe snorted. Before they realized it, they were holding each other, laughing until tears escaped their eyes.


Destination Absolution [Tag Cloud Challenge]
THX 0477
2008-11-09T23:19:21Z
ID: 45772
Prequels: 45746

Sequels: none


Tickets please.
Wha-huh, heh? mumbled Jake, coming rudely to his senses.
Tickets please, repeated the sharply dressed man in the little blue cap.
Huh? Who the...
Im the ticket agent, of course. Tickets please. He held out his hand. In a blur a lovely woman with startlingly dark hair took a seat across from Jake.
Allow me, she said sweetly, handing two tickets to the agent, Destination Absolution.
As the agent left Jake ventured, Dont I know you? He tried framing her face in a little square with his hands.
Im not Alfred Hitchcock, if thats what youre thinking, she teased with a wry smile.
No, youre...hey, did you say Absolution? How the crap did I get on a train? And, and...
So many questions, how can I keep up? Her eyebrow raised in mocking salute.
Aha! Youre Ana Christina, and...but you live in Florida, and I live in Wisconsin, but...and the train...which means...
That you need to lay off the alcohol to avoid these weird dreams, mijo.


The Birth of a Killer [Serial Killer Challenge]
Wyatt Aapr
2008-11-10T00:21:38Z
ID: 45773
Prequels: 45717

Sequels: none


The blood.
The blood had always been the problem, or rather the washing away the blood. Now, after finding the cave, there were no problems. Now it was time to kill a human.
My first choice was a nine year old girl; Alisha was her name. She was in my ninth grade class. She had red hair, freckles and no close friends. I followed her home for two weeks, just getting to know the route and her neighborhood.
I picked the ideal spot, a full block under construction. And during the winter months the workmen were gone when school let out.
She was easy to get. All I did was call out her name and she walked over to me. One quick glance around and I struck her with a piece of iron pipe. I dragged her over to a ditch, and covered her with a piece of scrap plywood.
After dark I carried her to the cave. The cave was the home of hundreds of rats. I laid her out on the ground, stripped her and cut open both of her legs: that was to draw the rats. Three days later I went back and there was nothing left.


ombra di bellezza
cracks in a sidewalk
2008-11-10T03:24:02Z
ID: 45774
Prequels: none

Sequels: none


Play. Louis Armstrong Fast forward. Nat King Cole. Pause. Both came swirling out of her stereo to the side of her bathtub. Both sent her imagination reaching far beyond the four walls containing her in her bathroom. Play. Billie Holiday. Physically, she was in her bathroom. Imaginatively speaking, she was in Italy, floating down a river,next to a shore with white lights strung through trees, sparkling as bright as the stars above. Stop. On the shore were Aretha Franklin and Bud Powell along with many others playing a private show for her. PlaySam CookeHer boat floated lazily down the river with wind kissing her cheeks and the lapping at the boat, pushing it that much farther down and into her imagination all the way back into her bathroom where the four walls enclosed and entrap her memory once again. StopThe water drew cold chills up her spine and her skin shriveled as if trying to wring water out of itself. She let up the drain and pulled a warm towel close to her shivering body. Unplug


==where?==
band geek
2008-11-10T10:38:37Z
ID: 45775
Prequels: 45767

Sequels: 45944


The helicopters were coming our way, I heard them coming nearer.
Come on, over here, the woman screamed, sliding down the face of the cliff.
I followed, and without thinking, jumped down as well.
Landing with a loud thump onto a dusty road leading into even more woods, I followed the woman, who wasnt taking the path.
Where are you going? I asked once I caught up with her.
Theres a river in this direction. Theres dogs. Think about it.
The dogs obviously did catch a scent, and it was true. The only way to lose them would be by either crossing the river, or just swimming downstream.
How did she know this landscape? How had she known there was a river there?
I didnt ask her; soon I heard the soft splashing sounds of the water, and jumped...
I looked behind me, all around me. The water was only five, six feet right here. We could easily hide, if the helicopters came near. It would be easier now. We could all get out of here-
Wait...
Where was Audrey?!


Below the Burning Sky
Thyme Passing
2008-11-10T10:53:49Z
ID: 45776
Prequels: none

Sequels: none


Arenn stood high on the cliff, looking down at the smoldering ruins, the smoke blowing into the westward setting sun. The Tall King was deposed, and after centuries of slavery, our people were finally freed, but at what cost? The multitudes, of which I was one, stood behind our rebellious leader as she stood surveying the destruction she had caused with what I feared was contentment. I wanted no more war, but I was afraid that more may follow. As if reading my thoughts, Arenn turned and looked deep into my eyes.You, child, she said, beckoning to me. My heart pounding, I slowly walked towards her. Odd, but I had never thought of our leader as beautiful before, only sly. Now she seemed to have the beauty of a raven silently flying overhead, an ebony silhouette against the fire-red sky. Child, she said again, Why do you frown so? Are you not happy to be released after so many long years of imprisonment? Of course, I said, but even as I said so my frown grew deeper. I saw a fire in her black eyes.


The Lights go on at Night
Tad Winslow
2008-11-10T11:45:08Z
ID: 45777
Prequels: none

Sequels: 45781


Well? Have you ever talked to our neighbors Abbey? Have you ever seen them outside of their home? I sure havent. Its freaking me the fuck out. Cant you see how strange that is? The lights go on at night, a few shadows move by the windows, and thats all we know of them.
Ok, but Seth, this is our opportunity to finally meet them. They decorated their house with orange lights for Halloween, their porch lights are on, theyre reaching out for the first time, dont spoil it with your ignorant assumptions. Im taking our boy over there for trick or treat and youre going to hand out candy. End of discussion.
Look. Abbey. Their cars havent moved in four months! Do these weirdos have jobs? Lives? A god-damn grocery list!? If youre going then Im coming too.
Abbey, depleted from the argument, compromises. Fine, put a bowl of candy on the steps, lock up, and lets go. Her boy sheepishly enters the room in his pumpkin suit and attaches to her leg. Are you an daddy fighting? He sniffles.


Makatrice
Thyme Passing
2008-11-10T12:35:04Z
ID: 45778
Prequels: none

Sequels: 45779


Many questions have surrounded the rise of the new Midnight, a girl only known as Alice Black. Though many now know who she is, very few know who she was, or even where she came from. I am a person who is in all of these categories. I guarded the person known as Alice Black for a year and a day in her youth at the orders of the former Queen of Midnight, came with her to live at the Night Palace in Amaron, and stood by as the Queen of Midnight instructed her in the ways of the old order. I was at her side when the former Midnight died, and when the girl now known as Alice Black ascended the Opal Throne. My name is Makatrice, and I was there.


The Wayward Diviner
Thyme Passing
2008-11-10T13:05:26Z
ID: 45779
Prequels: 45778

Sequels: 45784


The girl now known as Alice Black was, in her youth, known by the name of Alice Lepic, daughter of Pierre Lepic, Dawn, and of Claire Anderson, also of an important station, 9:00 in the morning. Alice had never been happy being the daughter of two of the Days. She regarded them- her parents, and all the days, in fact- with a semblance of disdain. The night was the only thing that interested her. She was secretive. Two days before her 13th birthday, her parents, Dawn and Morning Tea, as she called her mother, took her to the Wayward Diviner, as was customary for children of the Days. The Wayward Diviner had no doubt in his mind. He told Alices parents who she was to be the heir of as soon as they walked through the door. But they didnt believe him. They told him to spin the Bone Wheel, so they could see for themselves. They thought he had made a mistake. The Diviner makes no mistakes. Thirteen times the wheel went round, only to confirm his words. Alice was the Midnight Heir.









The Sight of a Blinded Man
kwatz
2008-11-10T13:06:49Z
ID: 45780
Prequels: 45585

Sequels: 45952


On what I felt was the fifth day of my captivity  although I will be the first to admit that my reckoning of time had likely fled  they tore the cloth from my mouth and pulled back my blindfold.
As I worked my jaw, I blinked my eyes, trying to adjust to the brightness of the floodlamps behind that illuminated the room before me. My captors loomed behind the lights, anonymous and threatening.
Before me was a mirror, set into the wall next to a heavy metal door. Rust pitted the floor, walls, and ceiling alike. Crusty bolt heads dotted the exposed surfaces at regular intervals. On the diamond plate floor in front of me was the cloth that had been used as my gag. The blood had long since darkened to brown, but I still recognized it as her scarf.
I started to twist my neck around, anxious to glimpse the figures behind when suddenly the lights were extinguished and my room fell into darkness.
Except for the dull glow of the mirror in front of me, which now manifested as a window, backlit from the other side.


The Lights go on at Night (Part Two)
Tad Winslow
2008-11-10T13:21:20Z
ID: 45781
Prequels: 45777

Sequels: 45824


Abbey, Seth, and Calvintheir little pumpkin suited boy, climb their neighbors stairs. Every light is on but no one answers the doorbell. Seth rings again, annoyed by the lack of response.
The door is wide open, honey, Im gonna give a holler and if no one answers were leaving. The screen door creaks open. Hello, trick or treat, is anyone home? Seth yells. Nothing.
Wait a second, they left a note. Big bold letters spell  CANDY IN THE FOYER , HELP  YOURSELF TO ONE PER PERSON PLEASE . HAPPY  HALLOWEEN .
Alright, Calvin, lets get some candy sweet heart. Abbey calmly ushers her son inside. Seth follows with some trepidation. The door slams shut behind him and the house clams up. They are trapped. Specks of ceiling paint sift to the floor as the house shakes violently. Seth tries to secure Calvin in his arms but the G force plasters him to the floor as the house shifts from the earth and lifts off at a speed unfathomable. Seth watches the windowAbbey sees Saturn reflect in his widening eyes.


Let Me Shine
Saint Chuck
2008-11-10T13:45:51Z
ID: 45782
Prequels: none

Sequels: none


You are the lightI am the shadowSitting in the glow Of your flameHanging onTo the threads of lightThat encompass youMake you unattainableYet bind me to youIn a wayThat I knowI will never be able to let goKeep me in your glowFeed me those threadsAnd let me shine


Diamond
K
2008-11-10T14:17:06Z
ID: 45783
Prequels: 45740

Sequels: 45840


When you arrive at her door, she is flustered, but smiling. Her dog scampers around at your feet as you wrap her into a tight hug. I missed you, you admit, and you can feel her lips mold into a smirk where her head is pressed to your chest. I missed you, too, she promises, breaking out of your hug and starting down the hall, pooch in tow. But right now, we have something more important to worry about. She stops in the middle of her bedroom, hands on her hips. I lost my diamond earring that I got for my birthday...just last night. You cant help but laugh. Its a feat that only she would manage. Well find it, you assure her. But then, youre not entirely sure how youre supposed to find the sparkle of a diamond in the sunlight, when all you can really see is the shine in her eyes.


A Brief Misunderstanding
Thyme Passing
2008-11-10T14:26:17Z
ID: 45784
Prequels: 45779

Sequels: none


Noir and I arrived one day later, the day before Alice was to turn 13, at the orders of the Queen of Midnight to escort her heir to the Night Palace. Unfortunately, there were complications that we didnt anticipate, such as the fact that her parents werent thrilled at having their daughter as the heir to one of the Nights. They had already petitioned Noon about the decision, and even though Noon had said that there was absolutely nothing they could do about it, that still didnt stop her mother from slamming the door in our faces as soon as she saw our Raven wings. For a while there was the sound of yelling and doors slamming, and then an entourage of hansom cabs drove up the road, containing Noon and his escort. They were quickly admitted to the house, while Noir and I had the pleasure of waiting outside in the brisk November air for another twenty minutes. At long last, the door was opened for us by Noon himself. I apologize for the misunderstanding, he said. Do come inside.


NaNoWriMo Novel: Ch.4 Catch Me
Blusparrow
2008-11-10T14:55:22Z
ID: 45785
Prequels: 45754

Sequels: 45786


I laugh as the swing picks up speed. He laughs back. It is like we are two kindergardners at a playground. I feel my hair fly and I close my eyes. I am now flying. I feel free as a bird and suddenly I feel Chris stop pushing. I open my eyes to see him standing infront of me.
"Jump!"? He yells to me. "I'll catch you!"?
"Your crazy!"? I yell back, giggling."Oh comon. I wont let you fall, I promise."?
I give in and jump. He runs and catches me around the waist. His hands a gently grasping my hips like he is lifting up a father. He smiles at me and puts me down.
"I told you I would catch you,"? He says in a I-told-ya-so voice.
"That was really fun!"? I say laughing really hard.
"I am glad, wanna do it again?"?
"Sure!"?
I hop back on and do it two more times and he catches me just the same everytime.
"I should be going,"? I say after the thought hits me after the third jump.
"Oh" ya""? He frowns.


NaNoWriMo Novel: Ch.4 He Would Have
Blusparrow
2008-11-10T14:57:11Z
ID: 45786
Prequels: 45785

Sequels: 45791


"I wish I could stay,"? His face brightens at my statement.
"Comon, I'll take ya home. Wouldn't want you to be late for your date with Eeedddwwwinnnn."?
I laugh at how he says Edwins name. Chris takes my hand and leads me to his car. I wish this could never end. Maybe Edwin will do ok. Just maybe he will.
I is ride back full of music and singing. It almost makes me forget that I am actually going on a date with someone else after this. When we arrive, he stops the car and stares at me instensly.
"What?"? I say, looking at him back.
"Nothing,"? He snaps out of it, "Bye."?
"Ok, bye,"? I say and get out of the car.
It hits me as I fumble the keys for the door. If I was dating Chris he would have" Kissed me" or would he have. I keep this thought going as I walk into the door.
"Hazel!"? I hear my sister calling from the living room.


Rising Hopes
penguincaptain18
2008-11-10T15:12:39Z
ID: 45787
Prequels: 43756

Sequels: 45788


She didnt want the her hopes to rise, just to see them fall again, but she couldnt help it. How can you be sure? She asked again. Trust me. Ive talked to him long enough to tell that hes totally head over heals for you, Lucy answered. I thought that before and was wrong, Janice said, not allowing herself to believe what she had longed to hear for so long.No you were right. You just thought you were wrong. He never loved me. Hes always  LOVED  you. Still... If you wont believe me then just go ask him. Hes right there, Lucy said, pointing past Janices head. Sure enough, there he was. Kyle, in all his god-like perfection, was right behind them. Janices eyes opened wide.  OMG ! Do you think he heard us?!He mightve. Oh no, oh no,  OH NO !!!Calm down. Whats the worst that could happen? So he overheard two girls talking about which one he loved. No big deal. Itll probably just inflate his ego. You always have such a sunny disposition of life. I know. Doesnt it make me wonderful?


More Important than Flying Monkeys
penguincaptain18
2008-11-10T15:26:50Z
ID: 45788
Prequels: 45787

Sequels: 45790


Sure does, Janice thought rolling her eyes. Talk to him! Lucy ordered in a soft whisper. Alright, Janice said as she gathered her courage to turn around and face the person she had wanted to for so long. Hey Janice, Kyle said, a bit hesitantly.Hi... Kyle, his name came out with some difficulty.Um, how was your day? he asked trying to get a casual conversation going. He still felt guilty about something. She wasnt going to make it easy, Fine. Oh thats good. Yep. They stood there staring at eachothers feet, while Lucy, dancing around like a monkey whos feet were on fire and eyes didnt wuite fit, stood in the background going crazy. About this morning, Kyle said, finally breaking the painful silence, um... well... that really wasnt the question I had intended to ask you. It wasnt? Janice said, looking up, her eyes catching his, her breath stopping.No it wasnt, he said, the courage building inside him. There was something a bit more important than flying monkeys.


26 Maple Boulevard, Bloomfield, NJ
lovinglife307
2008-11-10T15:33:03Z
ID: 45789
Prequels: 45721

Sequels: 45851


Maple Boulevard.
I looked down at my crinkled map and address. Here we are.
The houses were so huge, I swear they were all mansions.
I swatted an angry fly away from my face, and wiped my forehead with the bottom of my dirty shirt. Seeing the pizza stains, and smelling my clothes made me remember to change before I met my long lost relative. I sure wouldnt make an impression in this state.
I snuck behind a bush, quickly switching my dirty t-shirt and jeans for a plaid skirt and white blouse. I was prepared.
26 Maple Boulevard, Bloomfield, New Jersey.
I repeated the memorized address over and over in my head as I strode down the lane, looking at the houses one by one.
18, 20, 22, 24...
There it was. Lucky number 26. I gulped nervously. My sweat glands were working overtime.
I walked slowly up the pathway to the huge stain glass door, with stain glass columns on either side. (Have you ever seen those before? Nope, neither have I.)
I pulled at my skirt, took a deep breath, and knocked.


Lots of Silence
penguincaptain18
2008-11-10T15:36:26Z
ID: 45790
Prequels: 45788

Sequels: 45810


Really? I didnt think anything was quite as important as flying monkeys, they both laughed. Seriously, I needed to ask you something important, Kyle said, regret painted across his face.Why didnt you? ...I was scared, he said looking down again.What were you scared of? Janice couldnt imagine anything scaring something this perfect. Kyle stayed quiet.Oh come on. You can tell me. I wont make fun of you, she said. He took a deep breath. You. Me? she said in disbelief, Why would I scare you? Not you necessarily. But your answer. I was scared of your answer, Kyle said, his face still firmly facing the floor.My answer to your important question? Janice asked, wishing that hed look at her.Yea... Well ask me Im sure it couldnt be that bad. Silence. Kyle... Look at me please. I... I cant. Janice was both shocked and hurt, Why the hell not? Again silence.Kyle...


NaNoWriMo Novel: Ch.4 Help?
.:band baby:.
2008-11-10T15:39:25Z
ID: 45791
Prequels: 45786

Sequels: 45792


"Yeah?"? I call back, slipping out of my flats.
"Come here for a sec, kay?"? She answers.
I walk hesitantly into the living room where my sister is surrounded by books in the middle of the floor. "What the""?
"I need help."? She says in a huff, throwing the book she had been paging through on the ground.
"What are all these?"? I ask looking around. "And where are the boys?"?
"The boys are upstairs doing who knows what. And these are wedding dress catalogues."? Amber says, gesturing at the many books and magazines around her. "Help me find one? Oh! I saw the perfect one for you."?
I wince when she says this and I just stand in the doorway watching her shift through the pile around her.
"Here!"? She yells excitedly. She looks like a child on Christmas morning. "Hazel, it would just be gorgeous on you! Come look."?


NaNoWriMo Novel: Ch. 4 Dress
.:band baby:.
2008-11-10T15:40:11Z
ID: 45792
Prequels: 45791

Sequels: 45793


Slowly I walk over as she stands up. She points to the big picture in the center of the page. "The halter top you show off your shoulders beautifully Hazel! And look at the bodice! Aren't the amber stones embedded in it just gorgeous?! The tight fitted top would show off your flat stomach perfectly! Oh and look at the back! These three bows down the back are to die for."? Amber exclaims.
The dress was beautiful, but I couldn't stand to think about it! "Cute. Uh, shouldn't we be getting ready though?"?
"Crap!"? Amber says. She throws the book on the table and rushes upstairs to our now combined room. I laugh at her and follow her upstairs. I walk in on her saying "What to wear..."? and digging through her closet.


NaNoWriMo Novel: Ch.4 Getting Ready
.:band baby:.
2008-11-10T15:41:07Z
ID: 45793
Prequels: 45792

Sequels: 45796


I shake my head and go to the bathroom to start my hair, knowing once Amber picks an outfit she'll own the bathroom. I can do my make-up in my room, but all my hair stuff was in the bathroom. I pull my hair out of its ponytail and shake it out. I grab a clip and section off my hair. Taking out my straightener I wonder what I should wear. I wasn't even sure where we were going.
I plug in my straightener and turn it on. While I wait for it to heat, I walk back to my room. Amber is just getting dressed in a mini skirt and button down pink blouse. "Hey, where are we going?"? I ask.
"They're taking us to some fancy restaurant I guess."? She replies.
"Okay, thanks."? I say before returning to the bathroom and straightening my hair.


The Ex
Music-Hearted
2008-11-10T16:23:55Z
ID: 45795
Prequels: 45742

Sequels: 45798


Will you please leave me alone? I really dont want to talk about Andrew. Honestly, I have nothing to say to you, so please dont bother me anymore. Yes, Im aware hes dead. No, I dont have any comments. Goodbye.


NaNoWriMo Novel: Ch.4 Little Blue Dress
Blusparrow
2008-11-10T16:25:01Z
ID: 45796
Prequels: 45793

Sequels: 45797


After my hair is all perfect, well almost perfect, I come into the closet and choose my blue dress. I have been saving this blue dress for formal date and I guess now is the time to bring it out. After putting it on, I look at myself in the mirror. My dress had a tight waist and flowed to the knees. The top has speggetti straps and comes to a V. I put on my make up and do one more check in the mirror.
"Hazel!"? My sister calls, "Your man is waiting for you."?
I roll my eyes at what she just said and make my way down the stairs. Edwin is waiting at the bottom with a huge smile on his face. He is wearing a nice white shirt and blue tie. His pants are black.
"You look great,"? He says and grins.
I blush a little, "Thanks."?
"You do look great sista,"? Amber says.
"You do too,"? I show a glint of a smile.


NaNoWriMo Novel: Ch.4 Fun Too?
Blusparrow
2008-11-10T16:26:00Z
ID: 45797
Prequels: 45796

Sequels: 45800


She is wearing a pink dress that is strap less and flows just below the knees. We picked these dresses out together one time. It was a fun shopping day. Edwin takes my hand gently and we walk out the door.
I see a black cadelliac in the driveway that I did not notice on my way in earlier.
"Who's car is this?"?
"It is me and Ashton's. Our father sent it for us today."? Edwin explains
"Nice,"? I say in ashtonishment.
I guess they must be really rich. We get in and drive off. Amber picks a radio station, rap of course, and blasts it. The whole ride is just filled with the blaring of rap. I just stare out the window and think of the fun I had today. Hopefully this will be fun too.


The Father
Music-Hearted
2008-11-10T16:32:33Z
ID: 45798
Prequels: 45795

Sequels: none


Were raised to believe that we will die before our children do. Its only natural; we grow old and die, and they carry on after us. Thats not supposed to change.
As a father, I always wondered if I was good enough. I wanted to raise Andrew to be a stand-up man, a good friend, somebodys husband. I thought he was on his way, but I was blind.
In all honesty, I probably wasnt around as much as I should have been. I should have talked to my boy, I should have asked him how he felt. He was so young, and I never even considered that he might be so alone.
I made mistakes- Andrews mother will be the first to tell you that. But believe me when I say Ive paid for them with the one thing that mattered the most. If youll excuse me, now.


NaNoWriMo Novel: Ch.4 Restaurant
.:band baby:.
2008-11-10T16:49:19Z
ID: 45800
Prequels: 45797

Sequels: 45801


We pull up at Andiamo and Amber glances back at me. This is one of the fanciest restaurants around here. Ashton gets out and walks around to open the door for Amber. Once she is out, Edwin hopes out. He leans back in and helps me get out of the backseat. We follow Ashton and Amber up to the restaurant hand in hand. I am so nervous. I have really high expectations for the night and don't want to be disappointed."Edward."? Ashton says to the girl behind the counter. She nods and motions for us to follow. She shows us to a table in the back near a lit fireplace. Edwin pulls out a chair for me and I sit, smoothing my dress."Your waiter will be right with you."? The girl says before leaving."This is amazing guys!"? Amber gushes."Fer sure!"? I say."It's just a little something."? Ashton replies, looking a little embarrassed. Just then a very professional looking waiter walks up to our table. I stifle a laugh as I see a white napkin draped over his arm."Hello."? He says, a strong British accent in his voice


NaNoWriMo Novel: Ch.4 Jeffery
.:band baby:.
2008-11-10T16:51:33Z
ID: 45801
Prequels: 45800

Sequels: 45896


"Ah, Jeffery!"? Edwin says, taking Amber and me by surprise. "So nice of you to come here for this."?
"Of course sir."? Jeffery responds.
"Jeffery is Edwin's butler at home."? Ashton explains. "He came over to show the cooks our favorite dish. And, well, to butler us."?
"Hello Jeffery."? Amber and I say simultaneously.
Jeffery nods in our directions, "Hello Ma'am."? He says to each of us. "What we discussed then, Sir?"? He asks turning back towards Edwin.
"That'll be splendid!"? Edwin says, clapping his hands together.
Jeffery nods and then heads off towards the kitchen.
"That's so cool you have a butler!"? I say childishly.
"I guess. I forget most people don't."? Edwin says, shrugging.
"Same."? Ashton agrees, slinging an arm around Amber's shoulders. Inconspicuously, he nods toward Edwin. Edwin then wraps an arm of his around my shoulders, totally taking me by surprise.
"So, what are we having?"? I ask, ignoring the uncomfortable feeling that is in my stomach from Edwin's touch.


Obsession
Mr. Gabriel
2008-11-10T17:28:35Z
ID: 45803
Prequels: none

Sequels: 45835


Its gonna be just fine, hun, my mother insited on the way to my new school. I bet you heard this a million times before, i just came to a new town, blah blah, new school, no friends, but i felt like the town of Marzark was way different than the others. After I arrived to my dreadful destination I was quickly settled in and rushed into my homeroom. Is he the new kid?... Hes cute. ... Oh, new kid. Is all I heard while sitting and all eyes were on me. But whos complaining?
Hi, Im Jared. He stretched out his arm, apparently wanting me to shake it. I just looked at him, and we both laughed. Who shakes hands? Its too formal. After that everything else went great. Jared introduced me to a lot of new friends and some really cool people. I was actually starting to love school! Well, so far anyway. I kept looking for some flaw, but nothing seemed to come up. This school was just too perfect! After school, Jared invited me to hang out with him.. maybe Marzark wont be so bad.


Legend of Rain
Akinaxx
2008-11-10T18:28:26Z
ID: 45804
Prequels: none

Sequels: none


A legend older than time itself, is about to unravel. No one can stop it, or detour it from its set course. All one can do is sit and listen to the tale as it plays out on a screen much larger than those of the theater. A story filled with adventure, conquest, agony, and relief descends upon this land, Amair. We the faithful people of his highness must follow the rules set for us by royal law. We mustnt and cant allow our foolish hearts to divert our attention. That is the fate of those who live in this land, and that is how it has always been. Until today, when a girl with a fiery disposition and a strong heart shall rebel against the empire, change the hearts of the city people, and bring defeat down upon his royal highness. This strong willed girl will fight harder than any soldier ever has and will release her homeland from its suffering, and forever leave her name in glory, Rain.


My World
Artist_Girl
2008-11-10T18:34:20Z
ID: 45805
Prequels: 45577

Sequels: none


Sandra shrank down the hallway, folding her shoulders over her torso. She hugged her precious spiral to her chest, her eyes focusing on the feet trampling around her. She moved slowly through the crowd of chattering teenagers, barely hearing the squeals of glee over having a date for friday or who bench pressed more weight. Selfconsciencely she ran her hand through her tangled hair, knowing that to the high school world it must look like a cat puked up a hair ball on her head. Spotting the girls bathroom, she said a thankfull prayer and escaped from the hallway. Once opening the door, she wasnt sure if the smoked filled room was any consulation from the hallway.


Resisting Tempation might be a sin(Yay my first poem!)
(:Shay:)luvs_rocket2themoon:)
2008-11-10T18:40:51Z
ID: 45806
Prequels: none

Sequels: none


Im tempted to try you againWind me up and let me spinAddictions not badIts a sinKnowing clearly what may becomeLet me go, Im doneYoure full of lust, pride, greed and shameYou said no one can escape the painIn the quietI yearn to be in your silver pool of lightWith your arms wrapped around me in the deep nightIm tempted to try you againBut I think Ill get the better of itWhen your at hand


No One's Been the Wiser [SKC]
g2 (la pianista irlandesa)
2008-11-10T19:08:31Z
ID: 45807
Prequels: 45717

Sequels: none


Ive never left a trail behind me. Never. Theres no notes, no writing on the wall, no physical signs of affliction. At least, nothing unusual. I know how to get under somebodys skin. I know how to find what makes a person tick. I know how to mess with the ticking. An odd thing, the human mind. The most complex machine in the universe just... falls apart, if one can mess it up just right. Its a delicate process. Most usually just go to pieces & do my job for me. Some are tougher than others. Thats where force comes in. I have my methods. Its usually my trusty switchblade. Ill have a toughened soul so helpless, so out of it, hell fall to his knees & beg for salvation. Kill me now! hell shriek pitifully, breath coming in shallow sobs. Out comes the switchblade. A few small scrapes on the back of the hand, or the shoulder, or on the heel. Whatevers handy. I pull out a vial, & pour some of its contents onto the pearling areas. Hes usually down within 48 hours. No ones been the wiser.


What to Do When the Ceiling in Your School is Snowing
Ezzie
2008-11-10T19:15:25Z
ID: 45808
Prequels: 45609

Sequels: 45949


I rapped my fingers against my desk nervously. I turned once again to make sure I wasnt seeing things. Cody was thankfully absent today. I turned around again and breathed a sigh of relief. I didnt have to worry about people dying today.
So I sat and listened to the dull whir of everyones bored thoughts. Bored....bored....bored... was basically all I heard.
Then I felt something on my head, like crumbs. What? I brushed my head off to see white crumbs land on my desk. Then more fell from the ceiling. I looked up.
The crumbs were coming from the ceiling tiles. What? I murmured.
Bree! Pay attention in class for once! Miss Widler yelled. Everyone stared at me. I blinked and stated, Yes Miss Widler...but the the ceiling...its snowing.
Everyone looked up at that moment, but of course the ceiling stopped by that time. Stop distracting everyone Bree. Youve just wasted a good 5 minutes of learning. So...
Were all of the teachers out to get me here or something? They never listen to me.


Is that a hard question?(manwhore series)
(:Shay:)luvs_rocket2themoon:)
2008-11-10T19:40:33Z
ID: 45809
Prequels: 45701

Sequels: 45881


uhhhhhhh...eeeerrrrrrrrr.. I stood there like an idiot, stammering.
He cocked an eyebrow up and snapped his fingers infront of me...
GaahhhI was startled by his snapping fingers...
Um...Whats your name? His voice is so melodious.
Erg.....
Um..Is that a hard question?
I laugh and his face seems to light up. Um..ya, hehe, sorry, my name is Peyton, Peyton Dallas.
Oh like the football player?
Id never seen a game of football in my life..
Errrrrr, ya i managed to say.
Well Peyton, I need help finding my first block..its um.. Geography with Mr. Craiggory.
Oh, Im headed there too!
Great! Its in room  B11 , kay, lets go
I walked with Aydan to Geography....
(anybody wanna sequel?)


Woman's Intuition and Patience
penguincaptain18
2008-11-10T19:41:37Z
ID: 45810
Prequels: 45790

Sequels: 45859


Slowly his face lifted. His eyes met hers. Janice... I dont know how to say this. I just... Kyle. No matter what it is Im sure I can handle it. I know  YOU  can. Im just not sure that I could, he said, his face about to go back to the floor.Just ask me Kyle. Itll be ok. How do you know? Call it womans intuition. Dont you have to be a woman to have that? Kyle teased.Nice to see you havent lost your wonderful sense of humor, she said, but stop trying to change the subject. Just ask me already. You sure are persistent arent you? Persistent, stubborn, focused, wonderful. Thats why I l- Kyle stopped. Thats why you what? she asked, heart starting to beat faster.Thats why... thats why... he just could get the words out. Patience is a virtue. Patience is a virtue.I dont know how to say this, Kyle finally forced out.Just say it. Dont worry about a negative reaction. You probably wont get one. I hope I dont. You wont. Kyle looked hopeful.


Bella's Life
sydney_luvs_ya
2008-11-10T20:00:07Z
ID: 45811
Prequels: none

Sequels: none


Isabella Shae, a girl from Mebane North Carolina. It was August 25, Bellas first day of school at CW stanford Middle school. She was entering 7th grade and very nervous. the year before Bella went to AL Standback Middle school,  CWS s rival wich caused even more pressure on her. Bella wasnt going to  CWS  alone though, a few people were leaving Standback, no particular reason for it. Bella was glad to here from her new boyfriend, Tommy Warren. They begain going out just two days before. Will Bella make it through the new year as a 7th grader at a new school, with new kids, wich ment new drama!?
This an idea i came up with for a story!  PLEASE COMMENT  saying if u think it could make a good story or not!
thanks and lots of love, sydney!


Because of You
Blusparrow
2008-11-10T20:05:43Z
ID: 45812
Prequels: none

Sequels: none


ButterfliesSmilesCaringWarmHopefulGiddyRelievedAmazedExcitedLaughingHappyBreathlessHeart- racingDreamingWishingWantingAll because of you









Games [Serial Killer Challenge]
Music-Hearted
2008-11-10T20:06:07Z
ID: 45813
Prequels: 45717

Sequels: none


I like games.
I started playing my games because of people like Jenna. Middle school was cruel, full of disgusting, stinking children. Hardly a place for the likes of me, but nobody ever did a thing about it.
The thing that set me off at first was her hair; it was long and shiny and blonde. Every time somebody spoke to her, she tossed it over her shoulder, rivers of gold streaming down her back. Practically taunting me and my scissors. After a few weeks of the friendly-game, I was no longer weird. So when I invited her over to play a game with me, nobody suspected a thing.
I recall how she cried when I chopped it all off with messy, rough snips. I remember her straw-hair wound tightly around her neck; I didnt need any rope. Tipping over the chair and putting a match to the boyish mess that was the rest of her hair... beauty. The meadow on fire.
Want to play a game with me? There are only a few rules. First, you must play along. Second, dont try to escape. Oh, and third, I always win.


Frantic Panic
Demosthenes
2008-11-10T20:23:43Z
ID: 45814
Prequels: none

Sequels: none


I cant breathe! He panicked. He knew he shouldnt, but he couldnt help it. The walls were closing in.
Help! The words wouldnt come. The water filled his lungs, left him hyperventilating, but with each breath more water entered. He choked and convulsed in the water.
Stop! No! His fingers closed around his own throat as he struggled in the water. His eyes bulged and his legs jerked around.
His instinct made him go for one last breath. hello. The water greeted him.
Then he died.


Ready?
.:band baby:.
2008-11-10T20:34:24Z
ID: 45815
Prequels: none

Sequels: none


Air-ee-el! Sofia calls.
Yeah? I say coming out of the bathroom.
Your man is waiting. She laughs.
That means so is yours. I say sticking my tongue out at her.
She rolls her eyes and opens our dorm door. After you. We both walk out laughing, our arms linked at the elbows. The boys roll their eyes at us and we both just smile.
Ready? They ask.
Yep. Sofia answers and I nod. I walk up to Tristan and wrap my arms arond him.
I missed you. He says as he kisses my lips.
I missed you too. I answer, smiling up at him.
Come on you two lovebirds! Sofia calls.
You hush! I yell at her. She laughs and her and Eaden start off towards our morning class. We should go.
Youre always sayin that! Tristan groans.
Thats cause if I left it up to you, wed never part and wed get nothing done! I laugh, wraping my arm around his waist as I start after Sofia and Eaden.
Im sorry I love you! He teases.
Im sorry I love you too. I say, kissing his cheek.


Is This For Real?
smarty101
2008-11-10T20:41:43Z
ID: 45816
Prequels: 43098

Sequels: 46623


The penguin ran to the shore and dove into the water. Grabbing me by the fin, he swam me to the shore and plopped me down onto the ground. I couldnt breathe. He listened to my chest and I blacked out. I awoke to his beak touching mine. I felt woozy and blacked out  again.
I woke for the second time in an igloo, but not mine. Then I saw him in the kitchen. I spoke out.Hello. He spun around and exhaled in relief.Oh, youre alive! Yeah I am, but who are you? I cant tell you. Why? Because. I got up. I just want to know your name. I wont tell you. I lunged at him and grabbed his throat. He punched me, then his whole body became dead weight. I let go, and he fell to the ground. Dead. I killed the penguin of my dreams. I went to the wall and bawled my eyes out.


This can't be healthy.
burberry714
2008-11-10T21:00:53Z
ID: 45817
Prequels: none

Sequels: none


It took me such a long time, but everything has finally fallen into place. The memories I had of him were all memories of when we were going out, when I thought I was in love. All I had now were memories. There was just one thing. Every memory I had only caused me pain to think about. Simple solution, right? Just dont think about it. But. How could you not think about it if it was what made you happy? If it was the best few months of your life, wouldnt you want to remember?Oh, and what sucked the most? The ring he gave me for my last birthday?Unhealthily attatched to it!Sure, I tried to take it off. I went a good three seconds before hyperventilating and putting it back on my finger. I needed to move on. I needed to just forget him, because I was dying inside. There was just one problem. I needed him to breath. Without him, I felt so wrong!Every memory that once made me smile now caused the pain in my chest. I needed to move on. This was surely not healthy for me. Or for anyone..


A Compilation of Reasons to Live: Part 1
Demosthenes
2008-11-10T21:02:34Z
ID: 45818
Prequels: none

Sequels: 45819


*The sun-rise every morning. Green grass. A warm day with not too much humidity and just enough wind. Beaches. The full moon, the half moon, the moon in wax, the moon in wane.... the moon, basically.  SMILE . That warm fuzzy feeling that you get when you are loved.  YOU ARE LOVED . Friendships that annoy the hell out of you but you know will work out. Learning from friendships that really.... arent working out. Cozy, stylish colorful shoes. Having a bedroom all to yourself. Colors.  HAVING A CHOICE . Making somebody else happy. Good food, and plenty of it!  TAKE YOUR TIME . Wrapped in a warm, fluffy quilt. A backpack with your initials embroidered on it. Communication. Sharpies and Hi-liters. Doing what you love.  HUGS . Let the emotion emanate from within you.  OPEN YOUR HEART .


A Compilation of Reasons to Live: Part 2
Demosthenes
2008-11-10T21:04:23Z
ID: 45819
Prequels: 45818

Sequels: 45820


Caligraphy. A whole page of cursive writing that looks so cool!! Mathematics. Trees. The crunch of leaves under your feet as you walk through the woods. A light snow-fall. Snow day!! No homework. Sunglasses that fall off your face when you run, but look freaking awesome when youre standing still. A necklace with your name on it.  FAITH . Trusting somebody. Being trusted. Learning how to be trusted. Making mistakes! Wooooo hoooo!!!  DON T  WE ALL ?? Isnt it  FABULOUS ??!!! Being unique! Striving for something and reaching your goal! Making money.  NOT  making money. Curled up on the couch on a rainy day. An evening out on the town. An evening at home chatting up a storm on  AIM . To cell phones!  MUSIC . Blasting the rock and roll so loud that everyone within a ten yard radius can hear it and identify the song. Big butts!  CRYING . Let emotion spill over and catch your tears in something...a box, a hat, a bag. Carrying your tears with you.


A Compilation of Reasons to Live: Part 3
Demosthenes
2008-11-10T21:06:40Z
ID: 45820
Prequels: 45819

Sequels: 45821


Carrying your love everywhere you go. Being corny and cheesy and old-fashioned and  LOVING WHAT YOU DO !! Not quite being there yet, but getting there. Making friends. Talking things out. Unscrew the bottle cap and let a little bit drizzle out at a timenot all at once. Freshly brewed A&W Root Beer. A good joke.  ANYTHING  that makes you  LAUGH OUT LOUD . Laughing on the inside. Self-esteem.... be it low or high. Being a teenager. Almost being a teenager. Being...um, older. Knowing what time it is! Not knowing what time it is. Owning a watch. People to talk to. A place to sit. A clean place to eat. Clean air to breathe. Being  ABLE  to breathe!  SEX !! Romance. One night stands. Understanding yourself. Somebody else understanding you. Discovering a new love. Chasing after a crush.  FLIRTING . Dancing like nobody is watching.


A Compilation of Reasons to Live: Part 4
Demosthenes
2008-11-10T21:08:04Z
ID: 45821
Prequels: 45820

Sequels: 45822


Fling your arms over your head and  SCREAM . Running like hell from nothing and toward nothing...simply to run. Sitting on the wet grass and then having wet pants.  YOUR MOST EMBARRASSING MOMENTS . A good story to tell your children. Having children. Not having children. Singing, even when it sounds terrible! A heavy snow storm. Losing electricity. Being late for the bus but having someone to drive you to school. Recovering from a cold. Getting a tan! Being hopelessly pale and not caring! The smiles you get after vacation is over. A pat on the back. The satisfaction you get when you win a card game.  DAMN  that was difficult... but worth it!! A long hand-written letter from a friend. A short note from a close friend.  ACTION . Emotion.  REACTION . Logic. Thinking things over. Not thinking at all.


A Compilation of Reasons to Live: Part 5
Demosthenes
2008-11-10T21:10:19Z
ID: 45822
Prequels: 45821

Sequels: 45838


A good movie. Reading...  YES ! I finally finished the page! My god, if you think about it, the human body is just  INCREDIBLE . I mean... the nervous system, the digestive system, the cardiovascular system...  BIG WORDS !! What the hell did you just say?  WHATEVER ! Puddle jumping! The sound of the rain on the roof! A beautiful sunset...with reds and golds and blues and purples and.... Rainbows! All the colors really. WERE  SNOWED IN ! Thank god I can see things.  MAGIC . Singing in the shower. Choosing not to sing. Singing off-key and laughing about it! Spur of the moment!  I DO  believe in fairies! Freezing cold. Scalding hot. Theres only us. Theres only this. Forget regret, or life is yours to miss. No other road, no other way.......NO  DAY BUT TODAY .
-thanks to Jonathon Larson for the final quote


Hello, My Name is Fame
Demosthenes
2008-11-10T21:29:37Z
ID: 45823
Prequels: none

Sequels: 45829


The path veered to the right. I nearly veered off it. Damn. I was daydreaming again. Not on the bike, Fame! I reprimanded myself. Now refocused, I leaned over and peddled harder up the hill through the tall grass and flowers. Almost there...
I reached the top and clapped my feet on the ground to stop my momentum. The wind was blowing hard. I suddenly regretted not getting a haircut when my mom told me to. What am I trying to prove anyway? My mind flinched back against this remark. I swung my legs over the seat and let the bike fall to the ground. Standing there silently I was forced to reflect on that very question.
What are you trying to prove? Or rather, disprove?
My name.
Why?
Im just a normal guy. I dont want to be famous.
What are you hiding from? Why are you afraid?
That is a very good question.


The Lights Go On at Night:  Adrift
Stovohobo
2008-11-10T21:44:35Z
ID: 45824
Prequels: 45781

Sequels: none


Seths lungs were totally still as he gazed out on the tapestry of stars and planets outside the window. He felt the windows  extremely thick plastic-type material to keep out the vacuum. Amazing.
Terrifying.
Calvin started screaming and crying, and Abbey was going into shock. She collapsed back on the floor, chest heaving as she grasped for air.
Seth rushed over, but as he leaned over her, something hit him in the back of the head. He turned around and grabbed it. A respirator. Seth hesitated, but decided there was nothing else to do.
Abbeys breath calmed as the cone molded to her mouth, and she settled down to a comfortable peace. Seth thought he could use some of that right about now. Or Calvin, still crying by the foyer stairs.
Seth grabbed his son and gathered him close, fear and confusion leaping through his heart. So many mixed emotions  so utterly strange.
Suddenly a warbling chatter echoed from the ceiling. Then it morphed into a human-like voice.
Welcome aboard, Maver family.


Oh, Julianne
lovinglife307
2008-11-10T22:06:18Z
ID: 45825
Prequels: 45451

Sequels: 45940


I still remember finding her, how faded she was. How she faded into nothingness. I remember the overpowering sense of loneliness and sadness and grief. And anger.
The anger, oh the anger. I wanted to find him. I wanted to hurt him, to make him suffer like hed made her suffer. I wanted to kill him, too. I remember how scared I was of these feelings, of how I had forced myself to stay calm. But now, as I look back, I wish I hadnt stayed calm. I wish I had acted on them. That feeling scares me more.
But mostly, I remember Julianne. Her soft, bouncy hair. Her nose, her freckles, her eyes. At night, I think of her smile. Oh, Julianne, your smile. And the way the smile lit up your whole face. It was like the sun coming out from behind a dark, gloomy cloud. Oh Juli, oh Juli. I miss you so much.
I hold in these feelings. Not just for my family, but for me. Because I wouldnt last a second thinking about her.
But at night. Oh, the darkness, coming down to relinquish me of my pain. At night, I cry. I just cry.


Mrs. Madam and the Mouse
pianoman
2008-11-10T22:07:16Z
ID: 45826
Prequels: none

Sequels: none


God cried that day. Tears streamed down a cloudy sky hailing out on whoever stood between them and the ground. Mrs. Madam was the most un-delighted of all. Rain! She screech, grabbing the stares of a passerby. She gave him a nasty look scarring the poor man. He scurried out of her furious strutting pace down the sidewalk. She smiled maliciously. She loved the affect her temper paired with her ugly face made on people.I hate it! she ranted. The mouse on her shoulder plugged his sensitive ears. Here we are. sighed Mrs. Madam. She pounded up the stone steps to a sagging, rundown, grafeteed, doorway lacking a doorknob. In its center was a knocker in the shape of Mrs. Madams ugly face. Mrs. Madam smiled vainly at the likeness. The smile shrank to a pout as she discovered the archway held no shelter from the torrent. Dont go in yet. reminded the mouse.God, I know! snapped Mrs. Madam. She hated being told what to do, but she hated with a burning passion being told what to do by a mouse.


refuge.
band geek
2008-11-10T22:22:58Z
ID: 45827
Prequels: 45769

Sequels: 45828


No, I couldn't lose control. I thought of other things, of home. School, friends, music"
Music! Yes, music! I played a song in my head, one that I'd heard on the radio.
Focusing all of my concentration on the song, I started singing and humming parts of it aloud. Somewhere faraway, Karon was saying something to me, but didnt listen attention to any of it.
It probably looked a little funny, me lying there humming, him trying to talk to me. After only a minute or two of it, I stopped.
I heard scrawling on a notebook, and he said, "Interesting. You really are interesting, Regan."?
He said this with a sort of astonishment, as if by me singing, I'd prevented something previously... unpreventable.
He'd had to have been planning this" had to have known I would have reacted the way I did.
Not many people could control their thoughts unless something were at stake, and even then, many people couldn't. Nothing was at stake for them. Their minds were a refuge, a retreat.
I had no safe refuge.


okay.
band geek
2008-11-10T22:25:54Z
ID: 45828
Prequels: 45827

Sequels: 45831


Karon was still writing down notes, scratching the pencil heavily in the notebook. "Fascinating,"? he muttered.
I was tired, and I needed sleep. Slowly drifting off, I heard him walk out, flicking the light off on his way.
I hated him so much.
Before I fell asleep, my door clicked open again and Theo walked inside, asking, "Are you okay?"?
I was asleep before I could answer.
When I woke up, Theo was still there. "What happened?"? he asked, rushing over to my bed.
"Tricks."? I still had a killer headache. "What time is it?"?
"Five thirty. What tricks? What are you talking about?!"?
"Karon- he.. oh, God, Theo. I'll explain later."?
"Okay."?
"Can you keep an eye on him for me?"? I asked.
"Yeah, sure. You know.. while you were asleep, he came in here a couple of times, taking notes about you. I thought something bad had happened."?
I laughed. "Almost happened. Now I'm starting to wish" forget it."? He wouldn't have understood until later.


A New World
lovinglife307
2008-11-10T22:27:34Z
ID: 45829
Prequels: 45823

Sequels: 45836


At the top of the hill, I veered south. I really didnt want to return home and face Adelle.
I had never been to this part before, and so I had no clue what awaited me. I would soon find out.
Fields. Miles and miles of them, which seemed to stretch on for much longer than that. My throat tightened at the scene. This was like my dream.
Shivering, and not from the cold, I walked my bike through the tall grasses, not quite sure where I was headed. To be honest, I didnt really care. And that scared me. I was programmed to be scared. It was in my nature. What was this, some kind of outburst of mechanical difficulties?
Ahhh...
The wind blew smoothly over my face as I dropped my bike to the ground and lifted my face to the pure white clouds above me.
This is what living was. Not any of that Gianna nonsense. This is what everyone was meant for. Just to live.
I smiled. I had entered another world. One where there wasnt any choosing, wasnt any Giannas, and there most definitely wasnt any fame.


music.
band geek
2008-11-10T22:44:52Z
ID: 45831
Prequels: 45828

Sequels: 45832


It became soundless again, and Theo said, "Hey, I don't really want to stay in here. Your room is so empty, no windows" can we go to my room instead?"?
"Oh, I don't know, I'm still really tired."?
"Come on, you can sleep in there."?
"Why do you want me to go with you so badly?"?
"I don't know, I just" I don't feel safe. Everyone around here either knows everything or knows nothing, except you. You're the only one who thinks like I do, who understands this at all."?
I still didn't see how what he'd said answered my question or not, but I followed him as he walked down to his room.
Music was booming from somewhere; I'd heard it before we'd even opened the door. The sound was loud, but didn't muffle out everything else. Somebody was sitting in the room, beating his hands against a book to the rhythm of the song.
Theo, ignoring his roommate, pulled me over to the beds against the side of the wall. I sat down on it, and curled up against his pillow, listening to the song. Finally, some relaxation.


tests.
band geek
2008-11-10T22:48:41Z
ID: 45832
Prequels: 45831

Sequels: 45833


Once the song ended, no more started up. "Can you play that again?"? I asked.
"I lost the station,"? a deep voice said.
"Oh."?
I scratched the pillowcase, making a soft sound to help distract myself. It was a little annoying, but soon, I was asleep again.
Theo shook my shoulder. "Time to get up. Dinner."? He laughed. "You snore pretty loud, you know."?
"Shut up!"? I rolled back over, trying to get back to my dream. "Not hungry."?
"Oh. Well, I am. So" you can stay here I guess."? I heard him shuffle out of the room, followed by his roommate.
Pretty soon after they'd gone, someone else entered. "How was your nap?"?
Him again.
"Please leave me alone."?
"Just here to take some tests. "?Doctor Karon pulled something out of his pocket and turned it on with a click. "Sit up, face me."?
He pointed the little flashlight, at least, that's what I thought it was, into both of my eyes, then checked my ears. He jotted down something on his paper, and pulled another instrument out of his pocket.


need.
band geek
2008-11-10T22:54:11Z
ID: 45833
Prequels: 45832

Sequels: 45877


"Notice anything different?"? he asked.
"No."? I had no idea what he was even doing.
"Hm. Now?"?
"No. What are you doing?"? I wanted him to stop.
"How about now?"?
"Get away from her!"? shouted Theo, storming in through the doorway.
"Now, Theodore, this is necessary-"
"I said,  GET AWAY !"?
"Okay, okay. Regan, I'll see you tomorrow. Theodore, goodnight."?
Gathering up his things, he left the room. "You didn't feel any of that?"? Theo asked, bewildered.
"Feel what?"?
"He was poking your eye with a... a needle or something, I think. You didnt know?!"?
"No, I didn't feel anything."?
Theo walked closer. "I'm sorry."?
"Sorry?"?
"If I'd stayed, he wouldn't have" done it."?
"It's okay, Theo. It didn't hurt" which is weird, but there's nothing to be sorry about. You didn't know. I didn't either."?
"He can't do that to you again."?
I sighed. "He's going to get away with everything. If he "needs' to do something, he's going to do it, as much as I don't want him to. He already told me: I have no control.


Sooner Or Later
Freedom
2008-11-10T22:56:51Z
ID: 45834
Prequels: 45287

Sequels: none


I woke up in Spencer's arms. He smiled down at me sweetly but I gaped in horror. His nose was bleeding and his eye looked like it was minutes from serious bruising. Yet he was smiling.
"What " what happened?"? I whispered to him and his smiled widened.
"It's so great to hear your voice. I saw you in Robert's car and so I came to the rescue. You went out a couple minutes in and I was so afraid that you weren't coming back. He ran off about thirty minutes ago and now it's just us."?
I finally cracked a smile. "Us is just how I like it."?
Despite his destroyed face, he leaned down and kissed me gently. "It's all going to be okay, Grace. It's all going to be okay."? He repeated and maybe, he was trying to convince both of us. Sooner or later, he's going to get tired of rescuing me from Robert and then " well, I just don't know.
For now though, I'm content right here in his arms, far away from Robert.
Discontinued or  THE END  lol :P


Obsession: Innocent
Mr. Gabriel
2008-11-10T22:59:59Z
ID: 45835
Prequels: 45803

Sequels: 45837


Having an amazing time was no problem, considering the fact that Jared and I had a lot in common. I went online and first checked if my favorite ficlet author wrote a sequel to his story. I read and commented it, then checked my Myspace and had a ton of new friend requests from people in school. I accepted them all, and organized them on my top. Jared was online and I decided to check his profile, and saw that I was already on his top..his first. I didnt think it was a big deal, so I ignored it, leaving him where he was on mine. He later messaged me asking if I had fun and all that day. I answered him, laughing in delight, when he suddenly replied Hey, why arent i first on your top? Well, i did have other friends I thought. Plus, I just met him right? He was the one putting me on his top so quickly, so I didnt answer, baffled by what to say. He messaged me again, asking to hang out with me again. I denied the request, because i was already invited by other people. He messaged back seeming... mad


Moving Forward in Ecstacy
Demosthenes
2008-11-10T23:20:49Z
ID: 45836
Prequels: 45829

Sequels: 45849


Ow! I jumped as a circuit in my arm sparked. Ah hell, I muttered, sparing only a glance for my robotic arm. You win some, you lose some.
I stood there for a moment, deciding where I was gonna go. Staring out at the open fields I realized it was possible to be free. Free from authority, free from pestering humans who had too many questions and too much hate, and most of all free from Gianna.
The wind insisted on punching me in the face, so I punched it back, screaming: Hoooo yeeeaaaaaahh! I leaped in the air and landed on my feet, grinning. Suddenly I was ecstatic! I couldnt hold it in!
Yeeeee hoooooo! I cried jubilantly, running and jumping. I grabbed my bike and ran next to it, whooping and hollering. Finally I jumped up and straddled the seat mid-run. My super fast reflexes could do that.
I peddled fast and fast and fast. And I was flying. ...Almost. I didnt know where I was going but I was moving forward. That much was for sure.


Obsession: Growing
Mr. Gabriel
2008-11-10T23:30:09Z
ID: 45837
Prequels: 45835

Sequels: 45870


I told him to calm down, it wasnt that big of a deal. We could hang out any other day, couldnt we? He seemed as if he understood, and told me to have fun. I was beyond confused. I ignored it, not trying to ruin tomorrows fun. I slept great that night, loving the town of Marzark. After I got to school, I met Jared, er, he met me at the door. In homeroom, he and i were surrounded by conversations in all directions. It was weird how popular Id become so quickly. Jared was sitting next to me so that may be why. I constantly tried to get into the conversations he was in, I felt like i had to keep up an appearance around him.
After school, me and the group I was with lounged at the the local cafe(which was conviently named Marz Cafe). We talked and laughed and had  TONS  of fun, especially with Jueli. She made me laugh, and so did everyone else. I felt bad for leaving Jared though. He was pretty nice to me yesterday on my first day. I looked around and saw him sitting a few tables away, watching.


More Reasons to Love Life
Demosthenes
2008-11-10T23:33:28Z
ID: 45838
Prequels: 45822

Sequels: 45848


The extent of love can never be reached... so of course we have to reach it! Setting records. Breaking records.  WIN SOME . Victory. Defeat.  LOSE SOME . A good romp in the park with your dog! Oops, now my clothes are covered in dog hair. Window shopping. Collecting random articles for absolutely no reason. Flipping pennies over so the head is face-up.... just so someone else can get lucky. Finding a quarter on the ground...IM  RICH !! Losing your wallet. Cest la vie! Lullabies.  BABIES . The innocence of youth. The internet. Wikipedia saves my life everyday!  LAUGHTER . The sunll come out tomorrow!  WEATHER . The 11 oclock news. Hell, theres news at all hours of the day! Building a snow-man. Argh my fingers are red and frozen! Hot chocolate. In-door plumbing! Heating.  THANK THE STARS  for air conditioning! Tanning on the beach. Darn it wheres the sun screen? ...And Im burned. Going out of your way to step on a crunchy-looking leaf.  AND REMEMBER : The sun doesnt go away just because its a cloudy day!


Melody's Grief
Mackizme
2008-11-10T23:39:35Z
ID: 45839
Prequels: none

Sequels: 45841


Melody sat up high in a tree, grieving again for the loss of her trainer, Jayden. He had been attacked by people that were looking for someone named Owen. He told them he didnt know, so they killed him. Melody had watched it all happen, she ran after the ones that killed her, but they had talents that she did not. They were gone before she could catch them, and she ran back to Jayden. He was gone, and there wasnt anything she could do about it.
So there she sat, her tears falling through the branches, splashing silently into the earth beneath the tree, sobbing for the loss of her trainer. He had beenteaching her tai kwon do, so she could learn more self defense. She knew plenty now, but that didnt stop the pain of losing a best friend. She sat, her face buried in her knees, tucked up close to her chest, when she heard footsteps, running footsteps actually.


A Pair
K
2008-11-10T23:40:34Z
ID: 45840
Prequels: 45783

Sequels: 46316


So, youll pray to Saint Anthony for me? she asks for the billionth time, as your hand lingers over the door knob. You have been idling in her foyer for the past three minutes while you find excuses to not say goodbye to one another. Despite an extensive search of her bedroom, during which she uncovers her middle school yearbook (you laugh at her frizzy hair and braces; she snatches the book back and snaps it shut), a lacy black bra (which she quickly hides away in a drawer, cheeks furiously pink), and twenty dollars (to her delight), her diamond earring is still missing. After promising to spend the rest of the day praying to the Patron Saint of Lost Things you optimistically remind her that at least she has one earring left. Yes... she starts reluctantly, but some things are meant to be a pair.
One day, the irony may very well kill you.


You're Not The Only One
Mackizme
2008-11-10T23:42:15Z
ID: 45841
Prequels: 45839

Sequels: 45842


"Who"?"? she thought to herself, wiping the tears from her face, momentarily distracting from her mourning. She climbed up to a clearing in the branches to get a better view of what was happening. She noticed a boy, he looked about fifteen, but he was short. He was running insanely quickly from two men, probably around their mid thirties. They were chasing him.
She could tell they were armed by the way their clothes moved over places like their ankles or their chests. Melody was not only gifted with various talents such as stealth, the ability to move silently, invisibly and extremely quickly, but she was very observant. She climbed down from the tree, using her stealth power to get next to the boy, running into step with him. He looked over at her, surprised.
"Whats going on?"? She asked him, matching his pace easily.
"What the?! How?!"? The boy exclaimed, amazed that she could keep up.
"Did you think you were the only one with certain" talents?"?


Giving Them The Slip
Demosthenes
2008-11-10T23:44:33Z
ID: 45842
Prequels: 45841

Sequels: 45843


"So why are they chasing you?"? She asked, aware that the men were catching up.
"How should I know?!"? The boy replied, "I was just walking through town when those two showed up and grabbed me. I ran for it and they've been following me since then,"? he explained.
"Well why don't we give them a slip,"? she asked, winking at him.
"Sounds good to me"? He replied.
They both disappeared, veering invisibly off to the left. The two men came to a halt, not knowing where the youths had gone. Melody and the boy could still see each other, in a sort of mirror world of the regular one. The mirror world was much slower than the real world, which is why they moved so much faster when cloaked by their abilities. Walking would appear as running, when traveling in the mirror realm, that is, if anyone in the real world was able to see them. Melody stopped, as did the boy. "So, who are you?"?


Pleasantries and Beyond
Demosthenes
2008-11-10T23:48:38Z
ID: 45843
Prequels: 45842

Sequels: 45844


"I'm Owen, and you are?"? He asked.
Melody eyed him suspiciously at the question. "I'm Melody"? she replied. She looked over at the two thugs, moving in slow motion. They looked around, and disappeared. She walked over to where they had been standing, to make sure that they were really gone.
"I think it's safe to back there"? She called over to Owen who was still standing where they had stopped.
"Right,"? Owen said, disappearing and reappearing in the real world. Melody did the same and walked over to Owen, now at regular speed.
"So... you ok?"? she asked politely. He looked fine.
"Yeah they never caught me,"? he replied, nonetheless a little shook up. He took a deep breath and looked at her. "So, you have the gift of stealth too,"? he said tentatively.
"Gift of stealth"?"? Melody asked
"The ability to be able to go into that mirror realm... run really fast. ...That.
"Oh, then yeah, I guess,"? she replied. She'd known she had these powers all her life, but she didn't know they had names.









Arrival
Demosthenes
2008-11-10T23:54:44Z
ID: 45844
Prequels: 45843

Sequels: 45845


"You look exhausted,"? she spoke again. "Do you want to come lie down or something? I've got a hotel room up at the Montier."? At his inquisitive look she added, I've got connections with the guy who owns it, so he lets me live there."?
After a moment he agreed. "Yeah that'd be great. It would probably be safer if we traveled in stealth though. There might be more of those guys,"? he suggested, looking around warily.
"Yeah you're probably right, lets go, it's not far."? Melody said, and the two returned to the mirror realm again, setting off for her apartment.
They reached the Hotel building, but instead stepped into the side alley to reappear. They didn't want to cause a scene by just popping up out of thin air in the middle of the city. They appeared behind a dumpster and stepped out into the street, and then inside Montier Hotel, greeting the warmth happily.


The Third Floor
Demosthenes
2008-11-11T00:01:51Z
ID: 45845
Prequels: 45844

Sequels: none


"Ahhh Melody, you're back, with a friend?"? He asked
"Uhh yeah this is Owen"? She replied.
Mr. Greyhem was one of the very few people who knew who she really was. He was the father of her best friend Leah. Melody had known Leah her whole life. They met at about the age of five after she was taken in by Elinor Kirke, a wealthy old woman who was very kind but very strict. Leah knew about Melody's powers, as did Mr. Greyhem.
Melody walked up to the counter and spoke quietly to Mr. Greyhem. "He was being chased by two thugs. She lowered her voice. ...He can be invisible and stuff too."?
Mr. Greyhem eyed Owen. ...Oh really? And then turning toward Owen he held out a hand. I'm not sure we've met, Owen, I'm Adam Greyhem."?
"Well you already know my name"? Owen replied cheerily, shaking Mr. Greyhem's hand.
"I'm gonna go show him my room,"? Melody said quickly, as she and Owen walked to the elevator. Her room was on the third floor.


Newmatter
Vonster
2008-11-11T06:18:57Z
ID: 45846
Prequels: none

Sequels: 46176


Rob is a professor of theoretical physics at Imperial College, London. His thesis on Time Folding had figuratively and literally opened up new portals of opportunity for him professionally. That said he enjoyed his tenured position teaching.
Practical application was important to him, mere calculation of theories alone was futile. Being a fan of the American TV show MythBusters, he let his students participate in physical experiments that supported the core concepts of the theoretical treatise he taught.
At his home lab in Sussex, he worked on a new experiment based on his thesis. It functioned like a Spinning Wheel, twisting fibers of time space and folding them on a molecular level to create what he called Newmatter.
Tonight would determine once and for all if this myth was plausible or busted.
A nervous smile kidnapped his face as he turned to his laptop and positioned the cursor over the Run button and said.
"I reject your reality and substitute it for my own."? He then clicked the button.


Inspiration from Failure (or, A Research Trailer) [WITRSF2BYTC... and yes, I'm entering my own challenge]
g2 (la pianista irlandesa)
2008-11-11T06:47:42Z
ID: 45847
Prequels: 43780

Sequels: none


In a world, where research abounds...I gotta cite this source right...Where many go in, but few come out quite the same...Stupid biography, so long...One girl will develop a workable thesis and write her way out of lost time...before November 17th.You gotta be kidding, right?
This Thanksgiving, she will finally be free from her research paper...Woohoo! All ten pages!That is, if her computer will cooperate. ZAP Aw, frick.
With g2 (la pianista irlandesa), Mark Twain, and countless reference sources comes an epic journey abound with textual and parenthetical citations...Inspiration From FailureLimited Engagement begins Nov. 17 in select classrooms


Live! Love! Laugh!
Thyme Passing
2008-11-11T09:58:40Z
ID: 45848
Prequels: 45838

Sequels: 45850


Flannel blankets. Pillowcases with kittens on them. A funny-looking gift from your little sister that you keep anyway. Lavender soap. Counting down with the microwave and making the funny beeping noise at the end, and then laughing hysterically. The wind in the brown grasses of November. Milkweed seeds blowing on the wind. Wishing on the first star of the evening. Learning an obscure word and wanting to use it every opportunity you get. Annoying the heck out of your friends. Commendable effort!  FIBROMYALGIA ! Ticking off the robot on  AIM . Red leaves decorating the hillsides. Decorating a Christmas tree and rediscovering all the ornaments from last year that youve forgotten about.  CHOCOLATE CAKE . Someone elses birthday party. Throwing a stone into a still pond and watching the ripples spread. Colorful glass lamps that make designs on the ceiling.  KALEIDOSCOPES . Looking at all the pretty ornaments in a gift shop and hoping feverently that you dont knock something over. Eating cherries off of a tree. May. HA


Adelle's Mistake
lovinglife307
2008-11-11T10:00:42Z
ID: 45849
Prequels: 45836

Sequels: 45860


Crash!
Oops.
Its me! Im just, uh, going upstairs now! I shouted through to her as I rested my bike more carefully against the metal bars.
Wait a minute. Come here, please.
Dammit.
I strode through the metal door and into the house. The jail-like features suddenly changed to be more comfortable and homey. There was a sudden lightness to the air, I felt myself relax. Heaven above, she was good. Crap.
Adelle, with her usual soft glances and gentle demeaner, now looked angry. What had I done this time? She tugged at her robe and played with a string of her curly hair. I sighed.
And, of course, there was the one, the only, Gianna. I bowed hesitantly. Well, actually, it might be a clone. God only knows how many Giannas we have running around here.
Gianna simply stared at me. Fame, you are getting out of control.
Hm. Not the real Gianna, but not a clone. Maybe a robot? Her voice sounded strange.
Fame! Listen! Adelles hazel eyes bored into me. I retaliated. What was going on?


Giving Thanks
lovinglife307
2008-11-11T10:14:53Z
ID: 45850
Prequels: 45848

Sequels: 45876


Wet dog kisses. Passing notes when the teacher isnt paying attention. Chorus concerts. Band concerts! Giving thanks and really meaning it. Praying to God like he was an old friend. Getting an answer back. Catching snowflakes on your tongue and watching them melt. Staring out the window at nothing in particular.  BEAUTY . Really loving life.  LOVING YOURSELF . Feeling the rain at your back and the sun up ahead. Knowing that the weather man predicted rain, but going outside anyways, and finding its impeccably sunny the whole day.  SMILES . Getting to a new level of a video game. Watching your pets play around, and joining in. Hearing a cat purr.  EATING  delicious food whenever you want to, without worrying about how many carbs it has. Wrapping a present and using as much tape as you want, even it that may be the whole roll. Reading a really good book, and then writing your own.  SLEEPING . Dreaming good and bad dreams. Auditioning and getting in. Dreams that reach outside of reality, but you still achieve.  LAVENDER .


What a Strange Kid
lovinglife307
2008-11-11T10:24:38Z
ID: 45851
Prequels: 45789

Sequels: none


A young man, around twelve I would say, opened the door. He was wearing much what I had been wearing just a moment ago. Dirty green t-shirt, ripped, grass stained jeans, and mussed up hair.
I lifted my hand in a pathetic little wave. Um, hi there. Whats your name?
I think thats the question I should be asking you.
I retaliated. Geez. The kid was sharp. I laughed it off.
I am Maisie Beatrice Hampton, and Ive come to see my grandmother. Do you know of her?
The little boy looked at me curiously, as if he were trying to read my face. Wait.
As soon as he disappeared my back slumped. God. How was I supposed to get past this body guard?
The little boy returned with a clipboard, and on it was a long piece of paper. Hm... He tapped his pencil on it. Hampton, Marie... Harrisford, Virginia... Sorry, kiddo, youre not on the list.
List? Kiddo?
Im sorry, my real name isnt Maisie. I took a deep breath. Its Marie. I looked up at him.
Well, then come right in!
What a strange kid.


Fallen Angel
Thyme Passing
2008-11-11T10:26:25Z
ID: 45852
Prequels: none

Sequels: 45853


It was as bleak as a day could get, the day the angel fell from the heavens. It was a cold day in November, and the only sign of life was the wind, hissing between the brown grasses and the lifeless tree branches. The ground was littered with shriveled leaves that occasionally were lifted by the wind to travel several feet before dropping back to the dull grass. At first I thought that the winged shape in the sky was a sparrow, and I was glad that a bird had come out, for it was lonely with just the hissing wind for company. But as it descended, it grew larger. It was a goose. No, all the geese had left for the winter, and it was too large now. What was it? An eagle? Could it be? No, it was too large, and its wings werent open. It wasnt descending with control, but falling. The creature was the flapping wildly, trying to regain flight, but it still fell, falling, falling, down to earth.


Eagle's Beak
Thyme Passing
2008-11-11T10:53:56Z
ID: 45853
Prequels: 45852

Sequels: 45854


It crashed loudly into the branches of the leafless apple tree, splintering wood and screaming aloud. It sounded like a hawks cry, it did. I ran towards it. It was an angel! An angel, cast down from the heavens and fallen to the earth. Its big brown wings were twisted, and it was horribly cut from where it crashed into the tree, and yet its crashing into the tree very well might have saved its life, for the tree slowed its fall enough so that when it fell out of the tree, it was not hurt as badly as it would have been if it had landed on the cold, hard ground first. I ran up to it, filled first with excitement and then with concern. It was moaning, and occasionally it uttered a lamenting phrase in some incomprehensible language, and tears ran down its face. I saw that instead of a normal nose and mouth, it had a curved birds beak, of the sort that eagles have. I knelt beside it, not sure if I should move it inside, or if moving it might just injure it more.


The Bonesetter
Thyme Passing
2008-11-11T11:18:34Z
ID: 45854
Prequels: 45853

Sequels: 45855


Ill be right back, I said softly to the injured angel. The Bonesetter would know what to do. I stood and ran briskly across the field to the road. The Bonesetter lived not far away from my house, in a once-colorful gypsy caravan where he did his work. As a child, I had been terrified of the caravan, partly because the Bonesetter growled and snapped at the village children, but also because of the blood-curdling screams that came from inside when people were having their broken bones set, so they would heal properly. Breathless, I arrived at the caravan door, and knocked sharply upon it. I knew that the Bonesetter would not answer unless it was an emergency, so I kept knocking until he opened the door and snarled, What is it you want that you must make such a racket on my door? You must come, I said, gasping. Its hurt. I dont treat animals, he said, starting to close the door. I put my foot in the way.Its not an animal, I said. Its an angel.


Awakening
Thyme Passing
2008-11-11T12:30:04Z
ID: 45855
Prequels: 45854

Sequels: 46178


It had been two days since the angel fell. The Bonesetter had splinted both its broken arm and wing, and bandaged its various cuts with all the skill he possessed, but the angel had fallen asleep, and hadnt awoken until the second day, when my ginger cat, Andante, climbed onto the angels chest and fell asleep. The angels eyes fluttered opened, a startling green. Werent angels supposed to have blue eyes? The angel murmured and clacked something to itself in its soft, precise language, and stroked the cat with its unbroken hand, smiling. Andante purred happily at the attention. Good morning, I said, with not a little amount of awe. How are you feeling? The angel cocked its head, and looked at me with a sad comprehension. It said something in its language that I could not understand.I dont understand, I said. The angel frowned. It murmured a few more things to itself, in various languages, and then chanced upon English.I am so sorry, it said, and I saw tears in its green eyes.


Kamila Duche, heir to the Rouvelin Throne
lovinglife307
2008-11-11T12:51:34Z
ID: 45856
Prequels: none

Sequels: 45875


The necklace hung to just below her collarbone, and the pendant rested on her chest. The rose quartz stone heart was just the size of her thumb print, and the gold ring circled it beautifully. Overall, the jewelry was perfectly crafted to fit her and only her.
Kamila Duche, heir to the Rouvelin throne, strode down the streets gracefully, her russet dress bustling out behind her magnificently. She clutched her heart pendant, rubbing her thumb over the smooth quartz surface. She always held it when she was nervous. It reminded her of her mother.
Her amber colored hair was pulled up into a high, upswept bun, and she pushed back one of her escaping curls. Her sea blue eyes pierced through onlookers.
Zen, a large, muscular man in a loose robe stood in the crowd. I cant believe were doing this. Its madness! How will we pull it off?
A dark, mysterious voice answered him. Oh, well pull it off, alright, Zen. Dont you worry about that.
Yes, master.


Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet
User 1194
2008-11-11T13:52:24Z
ID: 45857
Prequels: none

Sequels: 46123


Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetuer adipiscing elit. Morbi commodo, ipsum sed pharetra gravida, orci magna rhoncus neque, id pulvinar odio lorem non turpis. Nullam sit amet enim. Suspendisse id velit vitae ligula volutpat condimentum. Aliquam erat volutpat. Sed quis velit. Nulla facilisi. Nulla libero. Vivamus pharetra posuere sapien. Nam consectetuer. Sed aliquam, nunc eget euismod ullamcorper, lectus nunc ullamcorper orci, fermentum bibendum enim nibh eget ipsum. Donec porttitor ligula eu dolor. Maecenas vitae nulla consequat libero cursus venenatis. Nam magna enim, accumsan eu, blandit sed, blandit a, eros.
Quisque facilisis erat a dui. Nam malesuada ornare dolor. Cras gravida, diam sit amet rhoncus ornare, erat elit consectetuer erat, id egestas pede nibh eget odio. Proin tincidunt, velit vel porta elementum, magna diam molestie sapien, non aliquet massa pede eu diam. Aliquam iaculis. Fusce et ipsum et nulla tristique facilisis. Donec eget sem sit amet ligula viverra gravida. Etiam vehicula urna vg.


One Man Search Party
THX 0477
2008-11-11T14:21:02Z
ID: 45858
Prequels: 45610

Sequels: 46517


With a start and gasp of realization, Mariano awoke. Impatiently he thrust away the covers and sat up, his legs dangling over the side of the bed. Nocturnal epiphany sped through his agile young mind, taking curves like a jack rabbit on Ritalin.
Sariah was missing. It was the only explanation for the cars, and the men. She hadnt been at her bedroom window all evening. She was always at her bedroom window. Always.
Still why was there no announcement, no search party? They must suspect foul play. But had they searched? Had anyone looked?
Brimming with boyhood zeal and naive conviction, Mariano jumped to his feet. He knew what he would do, how he would help. Swiftly but silently he dressed, layer after layer, accessory after accessory, until finally he was ready to go, ready for anything.
Without a second thought he was out the back door and to the woods, a one man search party. He knew the woods. He knew the paths. Most importantly, he knew the quirky, secretive nature of the girl next door.


Spilling
penguincaptain18
2008-11-11T14:26:47Z
ID: 45859
Prequels: 45810

Sequels: 45862


He took a deep breath. Ok.. Janice... Another deep breath. Janice could almost see the courage building up inside him. She wonder if he could hear her heart racing.
I think you have to be the most incredible person Ive ever met. No ones ever been as ridiculously perfect as you. Not only are you outrageously beautiful and brilliant but you also have the kindest soul ever in the history of kind souls. I dont know how all the other girls stand to be around such an exquisite being. They all have to hate you. They have to. I know if I were a girl I would. Id completely give up hope of ever having a boyfriend with you around. Thered be no way for me to measure up to you. So Im  REALLY  glad Im not a girl. Kyle paused for a breath, Janice couldnt catch hers.
I sit around and watch you, sorry if that sounds a bit creepy but I cant help it. I dont think Ill ever get over how utterly, insanely awesome you are, his voice was picking up speed, Janices astonished ears were having trouble following.


On the Contrary
Mackizme
2008-11-11T14:29:07Z
ID: 45860
Prequels: 45849

Sequels: 45863


How did she do it? Adelle always seemed to find him, and she never failed to share her information with Gianna, or....a version of Gianna. But what is she this time? he wondered.
He looked around him uncertainly. This was not the first time his home was simulated around him. They both thought he was stupid just because he was part-robot. On the contrary... Even this little spark of hope could not make him smile.
Whats going on here, Adelle? he said and gave her his most disappointed, disapproving gaze. She shifted under his stare.
Gianna said she couldnt find you.
Did you stop to think that I didnt want to be found? He ignored Gianna, deciding she was a pre-recorded hologram and posed no threat.
Adelle looked shocked. Fame! How can you say that? Gianna is so good to you! She seemed not to realize that the Gianna standing with them was just a hologram. He filled her in. She looked confused at first, then embarrassed, and finally ashamed. Im sorry, Fame, but I cant lose you.


Wyrmtongue
Thyme Passing
2008-11-11T14:37:49Z
ID: 45861
Prequels: 44835

Sequels: none


Many long years our people have been enslaved, many long years indeed. They took our families and separated them, our possessions and plundered them, and our hearts and broke them. Do not expect me to lament the fate of their civilization, for it was at my hands did it fall. The plan was of my weaving. Being their servant, I knew all their secrets, but they never suspected me, for I was meek, and small. What could a human do against a giant? they asked themselves. They never guessed my treachery! I laugh at their folly. I was subtle and sly. Through my cunning did the giants turn against each other. The man doubted his wife, and the woman questioned her son. None of them knew, and so they directed their anger at all, and so undid themselves. Soldiers plundered the homes of their own people, and the people rebelled. At the last, when the multitudes besieged the City, only then did I reveal my plot, and by then it was too late, for the City was burning. It burned, and as it burned, we made our escape,and fled.


Mr. Mile-a-minute, Giant Run-on Talker
penguincaptain18
2008-11-11T14:39:15Z
ID: 45862
Prequels: 45859

Sequels: 46056


I dont know how it is that you dont have a boyfriend. I dont know how there isnt an army of gus following you around, doing what ever your lovely heart desires, Kyle continued, Janices face was about as red as can be imagined, yet getting redder.
But then I think, it does make sense because shed never like that, he was really picking up the pace now, Shes not the type that goes around fluanting what shes got and taking advantage, which makes you even perfecter. I dont think thats a word but it doesnt really matter right now. All that really matters is that youre perfect and theres no one as awesome as you and you trump all those who think they are awesome and nothing is as wonderful as spending time with you and I cant imagine anything better than talking to you, or seeing you, or being with you and there would be nothing worse than some other guy scooping you up and not appreciating you because he doesnt know what he has and that would just really suck. Another giant breath.


Protector
lovinglife307
2008-11-11T14:42:35Z
ID: 45863
Prequels: 45860

Sequels: none


Lose me? I dont think you need to worry about that, Adelle. Youve tightened my leash over the past few days, you do realize. I stared right back at her annoyed look. She shouldnt rule my life.
Im sorry, Fame. I know you think Im being horrible, but Im not. She was acting defiant. What had gotten into her?
I think thats for me to decide.
She recoiled, stung.
Fame, please. I just want to protect you. She was wheedling now. She wouldve gotten down on her knees if she didnt think Gianna was watching. Which she probably was. I didnt care.
Listen, Adelle. You have been my protector, I sneered the word, since I was created. I know all I need to know. Its time to maybe reverse the roles a little bit. Youre the one that should be protected, not me.
Now, that, Fame, is for me to decide. You think you know everything, but you dont.
I sneered. Oh, sure, Adelle. Whatever you say.
Thats right, Fame. Whatever I say.


Determination
Mackizme
2008-11-11T14:42:36Z
ID: 45864
Prequels: 45716

Sequels: 45865


Todd stands there for a few minutes after she leaves, breathing hard, wondering what the hell he is going to do next. He has bravely decided to get to the bottom of this whole mess but hasnt decided how.
Dammit, what is Tom up to? At this thought Todd is suddenly inspired. Jim, he says quickly.
Yeah, Jim answers gruffly. He has been observing the whole scene and disapproves of how Todd has been acting.
What exactly was Tom writing about her?
Her looks, her mannerisms... Jim begins slowly, then he stops. To put it bluntly... I think that boy wants to kill her. Jim is surprised when Todd doesnt react very violently to this news.
Todd nods to himself, thinking. Yes, yes, of course he does. Tom always was a jealous prick, he splutters, his face displaying cold rage. The boy doesnt have a brain cell in his head that isnt fueled by greed.
Jim frowned. Thats a little harsh, boy, dontcha think?
Im not a boy! Todd snaps. He stands up straighter and says sternly, Im a man.


The Cold Shoulder
Mackizme
2008-11-11T14:51:48Z
ID: 45865
Prequels: 45864

Sequels: 45868


Yes, yes, o course ye are... Jim mutters as he shuffles around the tree looking for any other evidence.
Todd is also looking around but he cant see anything but a ball-point pen thats been crushed. Probably from when Tom fell out of the tree, he thinks, sour-faced. God, I hope that kid is hurting. Serves him right!
Jim eyes Todd carefully, then asks. Do you need my help with anything, son?
Without even looking at him, Todd answers, No. Im fine. You can go now.
Jim doesnt leave. Hes waiting for a thank you or some kind of acknowledgment of his help. He receives none. Angry, Jim says, Fine. Goodbye. He turns and stalks off toward his little house.


Five Girls, Two Enemies
lovinglife307
2008-11-11T15:03:25Z
ID: 45866
Prequels: none

Sequels: none


One, two, three... three! Oh my god. Harper stared down at her bent over stomach, where three miniscule rolls of fat had appeared.
Oh, Harper, shut up already. Youre a size two. I stretched out over my bed, twirling a dark lock of hair on my finger.
Harper shut up. It was only expected.
Gia came in with a bag of popcorn and another bag of Swedish Fish, followed closely behind by Emilie, who was carrying five sodas.
Here we go, luvs. Emilie plopped the sodas down on the bedside table.
Wheres Demi? Gia looked around the room, her eyes focusing on me.
Not quite sure. I tugged at my tank top. She should be here soon.
Hello girls!
Theres our Demetria! Where have you been? Emilie plopped down on the couch, pulling a down pillow onto her lap.
Oh, sorry guys. I got here as soon as I could. Demis hair was wind blown, and her nose was pink.
Come on in! Harper smiled invitingly. I frowned.
Hey.
She looked over at me, surprised.
Oh, um, hi Bella.
I smirked. Are you ready?


Too Late
Lizzio19
2008-11-11T15:08:18Z
ID: 45867
Prequels: none

Sequels: none


In the shadows I hideCautious and anxious, I fritter away my timeThen a glimmer of valor finally rises within meI prepare myselfLike the coiled viper, I strikeMy fangs baredThey long to seep in the skin of my preyBefore my attack hits I ceaseAlas, my prey is already deadA braver snake than I has beaten me


Hurting
Mackizme
2008-11-11T15:09:29Z
ID: 45868
Prequels: 45865

Sequels: 45871


Tom cant run any longer.
He falls exhausted to the ground and the sound of the snow crunching beneath his body fills his frozen ears. He gasps as the cold seeps through his clothes. He cant stop his teeth from chattering hopelessly and his shoulders begin to shake as well.
Oooooo, he groans, shifting on the cold ground. Noooo... His attempted moan escapes as only a whisper. He can hear the sound of nearby cars driving by and he lifts an arm uselessly. ...Help! he croaks quietly.
His leg aches terribly. It feels as though a knife is piercing through his skin and his muscles andoh! The pain is unbearable! His ears are ringing.
Tom pulls off his gloves and stares at his red hands in shock. Weakly he begins to rub them together to stimulate some heat but he is unsuccessful. As a last desperate hope he shoves his hands under his armpits. He is finally greeted by a sliver of warmth, and he shivers in relief.
But it wont be enough if he is left alone too much longer.


Eclectic and Bucholic [SAC...again]
g2 (la pianista irlandesa)
2008-11-11T15:23:44Z
ID: 45869
Prequels: 42136

Sequels: none


Who the heck is that? Never seen her before... Who, the redhead? Sweater, jeans, blue fuzzy bucket hat? Yeah. Did she wander down here by accident? I better call the Memory Department.. Oh, didnt you hear? Shes the new recruit. Her?! Hasnt she noticed that she sticks out? Probably. Ill bet a weeks pay she doesnt last the week. I wouldnt count her out yet. No, you listen. Eclectic & bucholic as she may seem, shes sharp. She catches on quickly, see? Shes as seamless & with it as she is conspicuous. You seem to have high hopes for her. And rightly so. Your reasoning being-? Remember Alpha Phi? How could I forget? No one could crack it for months. She wasnt here a day before she figured it out. It was all a musical problem, see? How long ago was that? You still on with the bet? Sure, why? Shes been here eight days.stunned silenceNow pay up. incoherent mumblingBy the way shes your partner next mission, so youd better get to know her.


Obsession: Begins
Mr. Gabriel
2008-11-11T15:56:41Z
ID: 45870
Prequels: 45837

Sequels: 45954


My heart skipped a beat in horror. What was he doing here? Pure coincidence could be an explanation, and it sounded like a good one, so I went with that and waved at him. He smiled. I looked away and saw from the corner of my eyes, he was angry.
A few weeks had passed since I came to Marzark. Jared and I hung out almost everyday, and he was making me popular. One Friday Jared had to visit his family in a different part of town, and for once I had nothing to do. I picked up my phone and looked at my recent call list to see if anyone would hang out today. All incoming calls from Jared. A few outgoing.. to Jared. I looked through my contact list and called Jueli. She wasnt busy either, and she invited me to the mall. I gladly accepted. I swiftly put on my clothes and was out the door in less than a few minutes. I waited until Jueli came to leave. I stopped abruptly noticing a vibration coming from my leg. It was a text from Jared. im comin home now so we can hang out


Not Your Typical Rescue
Mackizme
2008-11-11T16:11:31Z
ID: 45871
Prequels: 45868

Sequels: 45872


Warm hands turn him over. His eyes are frozen closed, and he moans softly at the touch. He is barely conscious as the hands pick him up and carry him...somewhere. He can occasionally make out some voices, but only snippets of conversation. He is drifting in and out of consciousness.
....in the truck....hurt.......needs heat.... ....him home... I know! This last comment is louder than the rest and his eyes flutter open and catch a glimpse of a girl....a beautiful girl. And then he is asleep again.
He awakens in water. Warm water. Someone is rubbing his arms with soapy hands. Wha...? he murmurs. The light is bright. Suddenly the lights dim and he is able to fully open his eyes.
Tom is astonished to find himself sitting in a white porcelain bathtub. He suddenly realizes something is touching his leg. No. Not just his leg, but his back as well. All at once the realization comes, and then he hears a voice speak into his ear from behind.
Hello, Tom. Not to worry, Ill keep you safe and warm.


A Long Lost Memory is Found
Mackizme
2008-11-11T16:22:57Z
ID: 45872
Prequels: 45871

Sequels: 45874


His instinct makes him stiffen at the touch of a girl, but immediately he relaxes as she reaches around him and begins to massage his adolescent, hairless chest. She moves up his arms and onto his shoulders, murmuring softly the whole time. He cant help but give up control. He lets his head loll back onto her shoulder, closing his eyes and moaning in pleasure. He is very aware that her breasts are pressed against his back.
Suddenly her hands are moving downward. She grips him by the waist and hoists him back toward her. Instinctively he moves with her and grabs her hand. She squeezes it, and with the other hand begins to explore his thighs and the space between.
He gasps, his eyes wide open now. Something in her touch has reawakened a long lost memory and he is turned on. The water is soothing and he moves with her, tuning into the rhythm of her moving hand, his mind elsewhere... in the past.
He is imagining that day long ago when that very special person did the same thing... and he fell in love.


Experiment No. 1
Stovohobo
2008-11-11T16:30:05Z
ID: 45873
Prequels: 45759

Sequels: 45884


A few more hours crept by, one by one, with nothing happening. I occupied myself by pacing the tile and gazing out at the Chicago skyline, then finally sitting down and listen to my stomach purr with hunger.
Finally, a noise came through and broke the silence. But it wasnt a voice, it was...just a mechanical noise.
Suddenly the entire floor underneath me groaned and creaked, tipping to a nearly forty degree angle. I yelled out and skidded down the slick marble floor, eyes widening as I realized the whole thing was hurtling me straight for one of the glass windows. The soles of my feet nearly burned off from the friction I made trying to stop myself.
I closed my eyes, and the explosion of glass reached my ears. Shards ripped at my clothing, hundred mile-per-hour winds immediately shooting me out into the opening, spinning me around and around until -
Dark. Light. My fingers felt cold stone underneath them. I opened my eyes.
Tiled marble floor lay underneath me.





   
      
         
            A Wasted Day
            Richard Harding

            
               Part One
               When its turn came, the private secretary, somewhat apologetically, laid the
                  letter in front of the Wisest Man in Wall Street.
               From Mrs. Austin, probation officer, Court of General Sessions," he explained.
                  Wants a letter about Spear. Hes been convicted of theft. Comes up for sentence
                  Tuesday.
               Spear? repeated Arnold Thorndike.
               Young fellow, stenographer, used to do your letters last summer going in and out
                  on the train.
               The great man nodded. I remember. What about him?
               The habitual gloom of the private secretary was lightened by a grin.
               Went on the loose; had with him about five hundred dollars belonging to the firm;
                  hes with Isaacs & Sons now, shoe people on Sixth Avenue. Met a woman, and
                  woke up without the money. The next morning he offered to make good, but Isaacs
                  called in a policeman. When they looked into it, they found the boy had been
                  drunk. They tried to withdraw the charge, but hed been committed. Now, the
                  probation officer is trying to get the judge to suspend sentence. A letter from
                  you, sir, would
               It was evident the mind of the great man was elsewhere. Young men who, drunk or
                  sober, spent the firms money on women who disappeared before sunrise did not
                  appeal to him. Another letter submitted that morning had come from his art agent
                  in Europe. In Florence he had discovered the Correggio he had been sent to find.
                  It was undoubtedly genuine, and he asked to be instructed by cable. The price was
                  forty thousand dollars. With one eye closed, and the other keenly regarding the
                  inkstand, Mr. Thorndike decided to pay the price; and with the facility of long
                  practice dismissed the Correggio, and snapped his mind back to the present.
               Spear had a letter from us when he left, didnt he? he asked. "What he has
                  developed into, SINCE he left us he shrugged his shoulders. The secretary
                  withdrew the letter, and slipped another in its place.
               Homer Firth, the landscape man, he chanted, wants permission to use blue flint
                  on the new road, with turf gutters, and to plant silver firs each side. Says it
                  will run to about five thousand dollars a mile.
               No! protested the great man firmly, blue flint makes a country place look like
                  a cemetery. Mine looks too much like a cemetery now. Landscape gardeners! he
                  exclaimed impatiently. Their only idea is to insult nature. The place was better
                  the day I bought it, when it was running wild; you could pick flowers all the way
                  to the gates. Pleased that it should have recurred to him, the great man smiled.
                  Why, Spear, he exclaimed, always took in a bunch of them for his mother. Dont
                  you remember, we used to see him before breakfast wandering around the grounds
                  picking flowers? Mr. Thorndike nodded briskly. I like his taking flowers to his
                  mother.
               He SAID it was to his mother, suggested the secretary gloomily.
               Well, he picked the flowers, anyway, laughed Mr. Thorndike. He didnt pick our
                  pockets. And he had the run of the house in those days. As far as we know, he
                  dictated, he was satisfactory. Dont say more than that.
               The secretary scribbled a mark with his pencil. And the landscape man?
               Tell him, commanded Thorndike, I want a wood road, suitable to a farm; and to
                  let the trees grow where God planted them.
               As his car slid downtown on Tuesday morning the mind of Arnold Thorndike was
                  occupied with such details of daily routine as the purchase of a railroad, the
                  Japanese loan, the new wing to his art gallery, and an attack that morning, in his
                  own newspaper, upon his pet trust. But his busy mind was not too occupied to
                  return the salutes of the traffic policemen who cleared the way for him. Or, by
                  some genius of memory, to recall the fact that it was on this morning young Spear
                  was to be sentenced for theft. It was a charming morning. The spring was at full
                  tide, and the air was sweet and clean. Mr. Thorndike considered whimsically that
                  to send a man to jail with the memory of such a morning clinging to him was adding
                  a year to his sentence. He regretted he had not given the probation officer a
                  stronger letter. He remembered the young man now, and favorably. A shy, silent
                  youth, deft in work, and at other times conscious and embarrassed. But that, on
                  the part of a stenographer, in the presence of the Wisest Man in Wall Street, was
                  not unnatural. On occasions, Mr. Thorndike had put even royalty frayed,
                  impecunious royalty, on the lookout for a loanat its ease.
               The hood of the car was down, and the taste of the air, warmed by the sun, was
                  grateful. It was at this time, a year before, that young Spear picked the spring
                  flowers to take to his mother. A year from now where would young Spear be?
               It was characteristic of the great man to act quickly, so quickly that his friends
                  declared he was a slave to impulse. It was these same impulses, leading so
                  invariably to success, that made his enemies call him the Wisest Man. He leaned
                  forward and touched the chauffeurs shoulder. Stop at the Court of General
                  Sessions, he commanded. What he proposed to do would take but a few minutes. A
                  word, a personal word from him to the district attorney, or the judge, would be
                  enough. He recalled that a Sunday Special had once calculated that the working
                  time of Arnold Thorndike brought him in two hundred dollars a minute. At that
                  rate, keeping Spear out of prison would cost a thousand dollars.
               Out of the sunshine Mr. Thorndike stepped into the gloom of an echoing rotunda,
                  shut in on every side, hung by balconies, lit, many stories overhead, by a dirty
                  skylight. The place was damp, the air acrid with the smell of stale tobacco juice,
                  and foul with the presence of many unwashed humans. A policeman, chewing stolidly,
                  nodded toward an elevator shaft, and other policemen nodded him further on to the
                  office of the district attorney. There Arnold Thorndike breathed more freely. He
                  was again among his own people. He could not help but appreciate the dramatic
                  qualities of the situation; that the richest man in Wall Street should appear in
                  person to plead for a humble and weaker brother. He knew he could not escape
                  recognition, his face was too well known, but, he trusted, for the sake of Spear,
                  the reporters would make no display of his visit. With a deprecatory laugh, he
                  explained why he had come. But the outburst of approbation he had anticipated did
                  not follow.
               The district attorney ran his finger briskly down a printed card. "Henry Spear,
                  he exclaimed, thats your man. Part Three, Judge Fallon. Andrews is in that
                  court. He walked to the door of his private office. Andrews! he called.
               He introduced an alert, broad-shouldered young man of years of much indiscretion
                  and with a charming and inconsequent manner.
               Mr. Thorndike is interested in Henry Spear, coming up for sentence in Part Three
                  this morning. Wants to speak for him. Take him over with you.
               The district attorney shook hands quickly, and retreated to his private office.
                  Mr. Andrews took out a cigarette and, as he crossed the floor, lit it.
               Come with me, he commanded. Somewhat puzzled, slightly annoyed, but enjoying
                  withal the novelty of the environment and the curtness of his reception, Mr.
                  Thorndike followed. He decided that, in his ignorance, he had wasted his own time
                  and that of the prosecuting attorney. He should at once have sent in his card to
                  the judge. As he understood it, Mr. Andrews was now conducting him to that
                  dignitary, and, in a moment, he would be free to return to his own affairs, which
                  were the affairs of two continents. But Mr. Andrews led him to an office, bare and
                  small, and offered him a chair, and handed him a morning newspaper. There were
                  people waiting in the room; strange people, only like those Mr. Thorndike had seen
                  on ferry-boats. They leaned forward toward young Mr. Andrews, fawning, their eyes
                  wide with apprehension.
               Mr. Thorndike refused the newspaper. I thought I was going to see the judge, he
                  suggested.
               Court doesnt open for a few minutes yet, said the assistant district attorney.
                  Judge is always late, anyway.
               Mr. Thorndike suppressed an exclamation. He wanted to protest, but his clear mind
                  showed him that there was nothing against which, with reason, he could protest. He
                  could not complain because these people were not apparently aware of the sacrifice
                  he was making. He had come among them to perform a kindly act. He recognized that
                  he must not stultify it by a show of irritation. He had precipitated himself into
                  a game of which he did not know the rules. That was all. Next time he would know
                  better. Next time he would send a clerk. But he was not without a sense of humor,
                  and the situation as it now was forced upon him struck him as amusing. He laughed
                  good-naturedly and reached for the desk telephone.
               May I use this? he asked. He spoke to the Wall Street office. He explained he
                  would be a few minutes late. He directed what should be done if the market opened
                  in a certain way. He gave rapid orders on many different matters, asked to have
                  read to him a cablegram he expected from Petersburg, and one from Vienna.
               They answer each other, was his final instruction. It looks like peace.
               Mr. Andrews with genial patience had remained silent. Now he turned upon his
                  visitors. A Levantine, burly, unshaven, and soiled, towered truculently above him.
                  Young Mr. Andrews with his swivel chair tilted back, his hands clasped behind his
                  head, his cigarette hanging from his lips, regarded the man dispassionately.
               You gotta hell of a nerve to come to see me, he commented cheerfully. To Mr.
                  Thorndike, the form of greeting was novel. So greatly did it differ from the
                  procedure of his own office, that he listened with interest.
               Was it you, demanded young Andrews, in a puzzled tone, or your brother who
                  tried to knife me? Mr. Thorndike, unaccustomed to cross the pavement to his
                  office unless escorted by bank messengers and plain-clothes men, felt the room
                  growing rapidly smaller; the figure of the truculent Greek loomed to heroic
                  proportions. The hand of the banker went vaguely to his chin, and from there fell
                  to his pearl pin, which he hastily covered.
               Get out! said young Andrews, and dont show your face here
               The door slammed upon the flying Greek. Young Andrews swung his swivel chair so
                  that, over his shoulder, he could see Mr. Thorndike. I dont like his face, he
                  explained.
               A kindly eyed, sad woman with a basket on her knee smiled upon Andrews with the
                  familiarity of an old acquaintance.
               Is that woman going to get a divorce from my son, she asked, now that hes in
                  trouble?
               Now that hes in Sing Sing? corrected Mr. Andrews. I HOPE so! She deserves it.
                  That son of yours, Mrs. Bernard, he declared emphatically, is no good!
               The brutality shocked Mr. Thorndike. For the woman he felt a thrill of sympathy,
                  but at once saw that it was superfluous. From the secure and lofty heights of
                  motherhood, Mrs. Bernard smiled down upon the assistant district attorney as upon
                  a naughty child. She did not even deign a protest. She continued merely to smile.
                  The smile reminded Thorndike of the smile on the face of a mother in a painting by
                  Murillo he had lately presented to the chapel in the college he had given to his
                  native town.
               That son of yours, repeated young Andrews, is a leech. Hes robbed you, robbed
                  his wife. Best thing I ever did for YOU was to send him up the river.
               The mother smiled upon him beseechingly.
               Could you give me a pass? she said.
               Young Andrews flung up his hands and appealed to Thorndike.
               Isnt that just like a mother? he protested. That son of hers has broken her
                  heart, tramped on her, cheated her; hasnt left her a cent; and she comes to me
                  for a pass, so she can kiss him through the bars! And Ill bet shes got a cake
                  for him in that basket!
               The mother laughed happily; she knew now she would get the pass.
               Mothers, explained Mr. Andrews, from the depth of his wisdom, "are all like
                  that; your mother, my mother. If you went to jail, your mother would be just like
                  that.
               Mr. Thorndike bowed his head politely. He had never considered going to jail, or
                  whether, if he did, his mother would bring him cake in a basket. Apparently there
                  were many aspects and accidents of life not included in his experience.
               Young Andrews sprang to his feet, and, with the force of a hose flushing a gutter,
                  swept his soiled visitors into the hall.
               Come on, he called to the Wisest Man, the court is open.
               In the corridors were many people, and with his eyes on the broad shoulders of the
                  assistant district attorney, Thorndike pushed his way through them. The people who
                  blocked his progress were of the class unknown to him. Their looks were anxious,
                  furtive, miserable. They stood in little groups, listening eagerly to a
                  sharp-faced lawyer, or, in sullen despair, eying each other. At a door a tipstaff
                  laid his hand roughly on the arm of Mr. Thorndike.
               Thats all right, Joe, called young Mr. Andrews, hes with ME." They entered
                  the court and passed down an aisle to a railed enclosure in which were high oak
                  chairs. Again, in his effort to follow, Mr. Thorndike was halted, but the first
                  tipstaff came to his rescue. All right, he signalled, hes with Mr.
                  Andrews.
               Mr. Andrews pointed to one of the oak chairs. You sit there, he commanded, its
                  reserved for members of the bar, but its all right. Youre with ME.
               Distinctly annoyed, slightly bewildered, the banker sank between the arms of a
                  chair. He felt he had lost his individuality. Andrews had become his sponsor.
                  Because of Andrews he was tolerated. Because Andrews had a pull he was permitted
                  to sit as an equal among police-court lawyers. No longer was he Arnold Thorndike.
                  He was merely the man with Mr. Andrews.
               Then even Andrews abandoned him. The judgell be here in a minute, now, said the
                  assistant district attorney, and went inside a railed enclosure in front of the
                  judges bench. There he greeted another assistant district attorney whose years
                  were those of even greater indiscretion than the years of Mr. Andrews. Seated on
                  the rail, with their hands in their pockets and their backs turned to Mr.
                  Thorndike, they laughed and talked together. The subject of their discourse was
                  one Mike Donlin, as he appeared in vaudeville.
               To Mr. Thorndike it was evident that young Andrews had entirely forgotten him. He
                  arose, and touched his sleeve. With infinite sarcasm Mr. Thorndike began: My
                  engagements are not pressing, but
               A court attendant beat with his palm upon the rail.
               Sit down! whispered Andrews. The judge is coming.
               Mr. Thorndike sat down.
               The court attendant droned loudly words Mr. Thorndike could not distinguish. There
                  was a rustle of silk, and from a door behind him the judge stalked past. He was a
                  young man, the type of the Tammany politician. On his shrewd, alert,
                  Irish-American features was an expression of unnatural gloom. With a smile Mr.
                  Thorndike observed that it was as little suited to the countenance of the young
                  judge as was the robe to his shoulders. Mr. Thorndike was still smiling when young
                  Andrews leaned over the rail.
               Stand up! he hissed. Mr. Thorndike stood up.
               After the court attendant had uttered more unintelligible words, every one sat
                  down; and the financier again moved hurriedly to the rail.
               I would like to speak to him now before he begins, he whispered. "I cant
                  wait.
               Mr. Andrews stared in amazement. The banker had not believed the young man could
                  look so serious.
               Speak to him, NOW! exclaimed the district attorney. Youve got to wait till
                  your man comes up. If you speak to the judge, NOW" The voice of Andrews faded
                  away in horror.
               Not knowing in what way he had offended, but convinced that it was only by the
                  grace of Andrews he had escaped a dungeon, Mr. Thorndike retreated to his
                  arm-chair.
               The clock on the wall showed him that, already, he had given to young Spear one
                  hour and a quarter. The idea was preposterous. No one better than himself knew
                  what his time was really worth. In half an hour there was a board meeting; later,
                  he was to hold a post mortem on a railroad; at every moment questions were being
                  asked by telegraph, by cable, questions that involved the credit of individuals,
                  of firms, of even the country. And the one man who could answer them was risking
                  untold sums only that he might say a good word for an idle apprentice. Inside the
                  railed enclosure a lawyer was reading a typewritten speech. He assured his honor
                  that he must have more time to prepare his case. It was one of immense importance.
                  The name of a most respectable business house was involved, and a sum of no less
                  than nine hundred dollars. Nine hundred dollars! The contrast struck Mr.
                  Thorndikes sense of humor full in the centre. Unknowingly, he laughed, and found
                  himself as conspicuous as though he had appeared suddenly in his night-clothes.
                  The tipstaffs beat upon the rail, the lawyer he had interrupted uttered an
                  indignant exclamation, Andrews came hurriedly toward him, and the young judge
                  slowly turned his head.
               Those persons, he said, who cannot respect the dignity of this court will leave
                  it. As he spoke, with his eyes fixed on those of Mr. Thorndike, the latter saw
                  that the young judge had suddenly recognized him. But the fact of his identity did
                  not cause the frown to relax or the rebuke to halt unuttered. In even, icy tones
                  the judge continued: And it is well they should remember that the law is no
                  respecter of persons and that the dignity of this court will be enforced, no
                  matter who the offender may happen to be.
               Andrews slipped into the chair beside Mr. Thorndike, and grinned
                  sympathetically.
               Sorry! he whispered. Should have warned you. We wont be long now, he added
                  encouragingly. As soon as this fellow finishes his argument, the judgell take up
                  the sentences. Your man seems to have other friends; Isaacs & Sons are here,
                  and the type-writer firm who taught him; but what YOU say will help most. It wont
                  be more than a couple of hours now.
               A couple of hours! Mr. Thorndike raged inwardly. A couple of hours in this place
                  where he had been publicly humiliated. He smiled, a thin, shark-like smile. Those
                  who made it their business to study his expressions, on seeing it, would have
                  fled. Young Andrews, not being acquainted with the moods of the great man, added
                  cheerfully: By one oclock, anyway.
               Mr. Thorndike began grimly to pull on his gloves. For all he cared now young Spear
                  could go hang. Andrews nudged his elbow.
               See that old lady in the front row? he whispered. Thats Mrs. Spear. What did I
                  tell you; mothers are all alike. Shes not taken her eyes off you since court
                  opened. She knows youre her one best bet.
               Impatiently Mr. Thorndike raised his head. He saw a little, white- haired woman
                  who stared at him. In her eyes was the same look he had seen in the eyes of men
                  who, at times of panic, fled to him, beseeching, entreating, forcing upon him what
                  was left of the wreck of their fortunes, if only he would save their honor.
               And here come the prisoners, Andrews whispered. See Spear? Third man from the
                  last. A long line, guarded in front and rear, shuffled into the court-room, and,
                  as ordered, ranged themselves against the wall. Among them were old men and young
                  boys, well dressed, clever-looking rascals, collarless tramps, fierce-eyed aliens,
                  smooth-shaven, thin-lipped Broadwayardsand Spear.
               Spear, his head hanging, with lips white and cheeks ashen, and his eyes heavy with
                  shame.
               Mr. Thorndike had risen, and, in farewell, was holding out his hand to Andrews. He
                  turned, and across the court-room the eyes of the financier and the stenographer
                  met. At the sight of the great man, Spear flushed crimson, and then his look of
                  despair slowly disappeared; and into his eyes there came incredulously hope and
                  gratitude. He turned his head suddenly to the wall.
               Mr. Thorndike stood irresolute, and then sank back into his chair.
               The first man in the line was already at the railing, and the questions put to him
                  by the judge were being repeated to him by the other assistant district attorney
                  and a court attendant. His muttered answers were in turn repeated to the
                  judge.
               Says hes married, naturalized citizen, Lutheran Church, die- cutter by
                  profession.
               The probation officer, her hands filled with papers, bustled forward and
                  whispered.
               Mrs. Austin says, continued the district attorney, shes looked into this case,
                  and asks to have the man turned over to her. He has a wife and three children; has
                  supported them for five years.
               Is the wife in court? the judge said.
               A thin, washed-out, pretty woman stood up, and clasped her hands in front of
                  her.
               Has this man been a good husband to you, madam? asked the young judge.
               The woman broke into vehement assurances. No man could have been a better husband.
                  Would she take him back? Indeed she would take him back. She held out her hands as
                  though she would physically drag her husband from the pillory.
               The judge bowed toward the probation officer, and she beckoned the prisoner to
                  her.
            
            
               Part Two
               Other men followed, and in the fortune of each Mr. Thorndike found himself, to his
                  surprise, taking a personal interest. It was as good as a play. It reminded him of
                  the Sicilians he had seen in London in their little sordid tragedies. Only these
                  actors were appearing in their proper persons in real dramas of a life he did not
                  know, but which appealed to something that had been long untouched, long in
                  disuse. It was an uncomfortable sensation that left him restless because, as he
                  appreciated, it needed expression, an outlet. He found this, partially, in
                  praising, through Andrews, the young judge who had publicly rebuked him. Mr.
                  Thorndike found him astute, sane; his queries intelligent, his comments just. And
                  this probation officer, she, too, was capable, was she not? Smiling at his
                  interest in what to him was an old story, the younger man nodded.
               I like her looks, whispered the great man. Like her clear eyes and clean skin.
                  She strikes me as able, full of energy, and yet womanly. These men when they come
                  under her charge, he insisted, eagerly, need money to start again, dont they?
                  He spoke anxiously. He believed he had found the clew to his restlessness. It was
                  a desire to help; to be of use to these failures who had fallen and who were being
                  lifted to their feet. Andrews looked at him curiously. Anything you give her, he
                  answered, would be well invested.
               If you will tell me her name and address? whispered the banker. He was much
                  given to charity, but it had been perfunctory, it was extended on the advice of
                  his secretary. In helping here, he felt a genial glow of personal pleasure. It was
                  much more satisfactory than giving an Old Master to his private chapel.
               In the rear of the court-room there was a scuffle that caused every one to turn
                  and look. A man, who had tried to force his way past the tipstaffs, was being
                  violently ejected, and, as he disappeared, he waved a paper toward Mr. Thorndike.
                  The banker recognized him as his chief clerk. Andrews rose anxiously. That man
                  wanted to get to you. Ill see what it is. Maybe its important.
               Mr. Thorndike pulled him back.
               Maybe it is, he said dryly. But I cant see him now, Im busy.
               Slowly the long line of derelicts, of birds of prey, of sorry, weak failures,
                  passed before the seat of judgment. Mr. Thorndike had moved into a chair nearer to
                  the rail, and from time to time made a note upon the back of an envelope. He had
                  forgotten the time or had chosen to disregard it. So great was his interest that
                  he had forgotten the particular derelict he had come to serve, until Spear stood
                  almost at his elbow.
               Thorndike turned eagerly to the judge, and saw that he was listening to a rotund,
                  gray little man with beady, bird-like eyes who, as he talked, bowed and
                  gesticulated. Behind him stood a younger man, a more modern edition of the other.
                  He also bowed and, behind gold eye-glasses, smiled ingratiatingly.
               The judge nodded, and leaning forward, for a few moments fixed his eyes upon the
                  prisoner.
               You are a very fortunate young man, he said. He laid his hand upon a pile of
                  letters. When you were your own worst enemy, your friends came to help you. These
                  letters speak for you; your employers, whom you robbed, have pleaded with me in
                  your favor. It is urged, in your behalf, that at the time you committed the crime
                  of which you are found guilty, you were intoxicated. In the eyes of the law, that
                  is no excuse. Some men can drink and keep their senses. It appears you can not.
                  When you drink you are a menace to yourselfand, as is shown by this crime, to the
                  community. Therefore, you must not drink. In view of the good character to which
                  your friends have testified, and on the condition that you do not touch liquor, I
                  will not sentence you to jail, but will place you in charge of the probation
                  officer.
               The judge leaned back in his chair and beckoned to Mr. Andrews. It was finished.
                  Spear was free, and from different parts of the courtroom people were moving
                  toward the door. Their numbers showed that the friends of the young man had been
                  many. Mr. Thorndike felt a certain twinge of disappointment. Even though the
                  result relieved and pleased him, he wished, in bringing it about, he had had some
                  part.
               He begrudged to Isaacs & Sons the credit of having given Spear his liberty.
                  His morning had been wasted. He had neglected his own interests, and in no way
                  assisted those of Spear. He was moving out of the railed enclosure when Andrews
                  called him by name.
               His honor, he said impressively, wishes to speak to you.
               The judge leaned over his desk and shook Mr. Thorndike by the hand. Then he made a
                  speech. The speech was about public-spirited citizens who, to the neglect of their
                  own interests, came to assist the ends of justice, and fellow-creatures in
                  misfortune. He purposely spoke in a loud voice, and every one stopped to
                  listen.
               The law, Mr. Thorndike, is not vindictive, he said. It wishes only to be just.
                  Nor can it be swayed by wealth or political or social influences. But when there
                  is good in a man, I, personally, want to know it, and when gentlemen like
                  yourself, of your standing in this city, come here to speak a good word for a man,
                  we would stultify the purpose of justice if we did not listen. I thank you for
                  coming, and I wish more of our citizens were as unselfish and
                  public-spirited.
               It was all quite absurd and most embarrassing, but inwardly Mr. Thorndike glowed
                  with pleasure. It was a long time since any one had had the audacity to tell him
                  he had done well. From the friends of Spear there was a ripple of applause, which
                  no tipstaff took it upon himself to suppress, and to the accompaniment of this,
                  Mr. Thorndike walked to the corridor. He was pleased with himself and with his
                  fellow-men. He shook hands with Isaacs & Sons, and congratulated them upon
                  their public spirit, and the type-writer firm upon their public spirit. And then
                  he saw Spear standing apart regarding him doubtfully.
               Spear did not offer his hand, but Mr. Thorndike took it, and shook it, and said:
                  I want to meet your mother.
               And when Mrs. Spear tried to stop sobbing long enough to tell him how happy she
                  was, and how grateful, he instead told her what a fine son she had, and that he
                  remembered when Spear used to carry flowers to town for her. And she remembered
                  it, too, and thanked him for the flowers. And he told Spear, when Isaacs &
                  Sons went bankrupt, which at the rate they were giving away their money to the
                  Hebrew Hospital would be very soon, Spear must come back to him. And Isaacs &
                  Sons were delighted at the great mans pleasantry, and afterward repeated it many
                  times, calling upon each other to bear witness, and Spear felt as though some one
                  had given him a new backbone, and Andrews, who was guiding Thorndike out of the
                  building, was thinking to himself what a great confidence man had been lost when
                  Thorndike became a banker.
               The chief clerk and two bank messengers were waiting by the automobile with
                  written calls for help from the office. They pounced upon the banker and almost
                  lifted him into the car.
               Theres still time! panted the chief clerk.
               There is not! answered Mr. Thorndike. His tone was rebellious, defiant. It
                  carried all the authority of a spoiled child of fortune. Ive wasted most of this
                  day, he declared, and I intend to waste the rest of it. Andrews, he called,
                  jump in, and Ill give you a lunch at Sherrys.
               The vigilant protector of the public dashed back into the building.
               Wait till I get my hat! he called.
               As the two truants rolled up the avenue the spring sunshine warmed them, the sense
                  of duties neglected added zest to their holiday, and young Mr. Andrews laughed
                  aloud.
               Mr. Thorndike raised his eyebrows inquiringly. I was wondering," said Andrews,
                  how much it cost you to keep Spear out of jail?
               I dont care, said the great man guiltily; it was worth it.
            
         
      
   

    
        
            
                TUESDAY, AUGUST 03, 2004
                 Captured Moments
                 Published in Double Feature by Emma Bull and Will Shetterly
                 (NESFA Press, 1994). 
                 This work is hereby released into the Public Domain. To view a copy of the
                    public domain dedication, visit
                    http://creativecommons.org/licenses/publicdomain/ or send a letter to Creative
                    Commons, 559 Nathan Abbott Way, Stanford, California 94305, USA. 
            
            Captured Moments by Will Shetterly
            
                 I remember Papa's stopbox, a teal blue Tiempo Capturado that Mama brought home
                    for his birthday. It was huge and inefficient, and she should never have spent
                    so many pesos on a toy, but Papa would not let her return it. He used it to
                    preserve baby tomatoes, cucumbers, and strawberries in translucent cubes that he
                    stored in the pantry for spring-time meals in the middle of winter. Mama kept
                    her mink jacket, a family hand-me-down, safe from time in a stopbox, and lent
                    the capturador to my uncle for his stamp collection. Sometimes they would let us
                    little ones to seal a treasured toy or a last piece of birthday cake until we
                    begged them for its release, usually a few hours after enclosing it. 
                 When my father died, a year after my mother, my sisters and I cleaned out their
                    apartment. We found our baby shoes protected in stopboxes. I took mine home,
                    where they sat above my computer while I worked on my first play. One night when
                    I did not believe love had ever existed for anyone, I used my own capturador, a
                    sleek titanium Sanyo Tardar Ahora, to undo the stopbox. Bringing my face close
                    to the shoes, I breathed deeply of air that my parents had trapped while closing
                    up that symbol of their love for me. 
                 The instant would have been improved had my baby shoes been cleaned before they
                    were encased. But as soon as I coughed, I laughed, and I did not try to kill
                    myself that night. 
            
            
                Let me begin again. 
            
            
                 I like life on the resort worlds -- always have and, after the upcoming
                    mindwipe, always will. Last year, I rented a small house on Vega IV, a sea
                    world, all islands and reefs and archipelagos, turquoise waters and aquamarine
                    skies, sunrises like symphonies and sunsets like stars gone supernova. There's
                    only one city: called Nuevo Acapulco in La Enciclopedia del Empirio de la
                    Humanidad, it's N'apulco to the locals. The N'apulcans are mostly emigrants from
                    Polaris II; the only difference between them and their Carribbean ancestors is
                    that the ancestors fleeced NorAm tourists. Now the N'apulcans profit from their
                    Hispanic siblings. 
                 I don't mean to sound cynical. I suppose I wish to show that I'm still capable
                    of a certain authorial distance, a semblance of dispassionate observation. The
                    following events may indicate otherwise. 
                 In fine tourist tradition, most homes on Vega IV are named. Mine was The
                    Sleeping Flamingo, and its outer walls were coral pink. Were they
                    mood-sensitive, they would have changed as I first viewed them. The rental
                    agent, an attractive N'apulcan named Tasha Cortez, was not mood-sensitive
                    either. She said, "It's beautiful, isn't it, Seor Flynn?" 
                 My instinct was to gesture curtly with a cupped hand that she lift the wind boat
                    and take me elsewhere. But she was young and attractive (as I have said and may
                    say again) and eager and so happy to be assisting the infamous Bernardo Flynn
                    that I merely raised an eyebrow in mild scepticism. And then, because a
                    playwright cannot resist a promising line, I said, "Your Sleeping Flamingo
                    should be put to sleep." 
                 To say her face fell would do a disservice to Tasha and to literature. (Allow me
                    my self-indulgences as you would those of a dying man -- when I convince my
                    mindsmith to permit the wipe, there will be another Bernardo Flynn, one who
                    knows no more of Tasha Cortez or Vega IV than he reads here.) Her brows drew
                    together, creasing the lovely, caramel-colored skin around her eyes and showing
                    the pattern for an old woman's wrinkles on her forehead. Her lower lip (a trifle
                    too narrow for her face, perhaps her only physical flaw) thrust forward slightly
                    as she started to speak. She caught herself, slid her jaw infinitesimally back
                    into place, and said, "You don't like it?" 
                 I laughed. What could I do? I clapped her shoulder to show I was not laughing at
                    her. "Like it? I hate it, despise it, abhor it! It's gaudy, graceless,
                    pretentious -- That house is an affront to taste and intelligence. I should buy
                    it to raze it, but I am not so kind-hearted. I might, however, rent it." 
                 I think she only heard the last words of my speech. "You will?" 
                 "It amuses me. Show me around, and then I shall decide." 
                 "Of course, Seor Flynn." 
                 "And stop calling me 'seor'. Not even Los Mundos is so polite. Call me
                    Bernardo." 
                 "If you wish." 
                 "I beg you, change the color of the walls, at the very least." 
                 "But of course!" The house walls shifted from pink to lavender. 
                 I stared. 
                 "How's that?" 
                 I looked at her. 
                 "Worse?" 
                 I nodded. "I would not have thought it possible." 
                 She frowned. "It is rather ugly." 
                 "Thoroughly ugly," I corrected with smile. 
                 "Obscenely ugly," said she, smiling too. 
                 "No." I pointed. "It has no tower." 
                 "I can fix that." She reached for another dial on the house controls. 
                 "Don't you dare!" Her wrist, when I grabbed it, was smooth and strong and warm
                    in my fingers. "I'll take it. Exactly as it is." 
                 "You will?" 
                 "I must. God knows what you might do to it next." Reluctantly, I released her
                    hand. 
                 The interior of The Flamingo was a welcome surprise. Cloudwood had been used in
                    a Mediterranean manner, making the house seem primitive and civilized at the
                    same time. The kitchen and baths had every convenience that I desired. From the
                    living room, the view of the beach struck me with such intensity that Tasha
                    asked if I felt ill. All I could say was, "No. I'm in love." We both thought I
                    referred to the vista. 
            
            
                 It's strange how one can write delightedly of the happier moments of life,
                    forgetting the things that one would forget by remembering fully the things one
                    would remember, and suddenly the forgotten, in revenge, rears up to savage the
                    unwary. So it was as I wrote the preceding. My heart convulsed, and I left this
                    manuscript for a three-day spree. Apparently I was so successful that it lasted
                    a week and a half. Not bad for an eighty-three-year-old, even for one who has
                    his rejuve every month. And if I can brag and digress so easily, this must not
                    be painful enough to merit a mindwipe, yes? 
                 No. I abandoned these notes to my future self to have the wipe done immediately,
                    thinking that Bernardo Flynn should receive such services when he needed them,
                    even should the need arise at the third hour after midnight. My mindsmith is not
                    so understanding. She says I am emotionally a child, to which I reply, "Of
                    course. Why else would I come to you?" This logic does not soothe her; she says
                    I must wait three weeks. Three!. Such is the law. I say I do not care about law,
                    I care about service and she should care about money. Enough. I went on a spree,
                    and it must have been a good one. I hope the wipe is as successful with my time
                    on Vega IV as my spree was with my time here. I dimly remember three bedpartners
                    who were probably human, and one that I hope was delirium. I will not answer the
                    phone for a week, no matter whose face appears on it. 
                 I keep evading the issue. But which issue? The issue of why I am evading the
                    issue, or the issue itself? To deal with the first: it hurts to remember. If I
                    am capable of love, I loved Tasha Cortez. If I am not, I had the perfect mirror
                    for my narcissism. 
                 As for the issue itself, I'm no longer sure what I want to record. The
                    playwright in me wants every scene of our time together. The editor says no,
                    only those that are relevant. The sufferer says no, only those which cause no
                    pain. And the artist says no, only those which cause the most pain, for those
                    would be the truest memories. 
                 So I shall soothe my quarreling selves with a compromise. I will not talk of the
                    first time Tasha and I tried any act of sex or sport together. I can remember
                    similar things with others. Tasha's witchery lay in making old acts new. Is that
                    love? Probably not. But it is something marvelous and rare, which is surely a
                    sign of love. 
                 If my love for her was the only important thing, I would leave a holo of her
                    with a note: "Dear Future, this is Tasha Cortez. You loved her. With warmest
                    regards, Your Past." 
                 Enough. Tasha and I walked through The Sleeping Flamingo together, and I decided
                    to buy it. Then -- 
            
            
                 This is not easy. I stand up, I walk around, I pretend someone makes a vid about
                    a writer and I must enact every cliche. I cannot decide what's important. But I
                    have learned something: writing trivializes. The Tasha who was is not the Tasha
                    in this file. The Tasha in this file is not even the Tasha I loved and thought I
                    knew. The Tasha in this file would walk through a net show in half an hour,
                    including commercials, and just before an ad for Figuero's Flash Diapers --
                    Keeps Baby Driest!, she -- 
                 Tasha is not the whole of what happened on Vega IV. I must also write about
                    Emiliano Gabriel Malaquez. 
            
            
                 Future Self, you know our style well enough to tell that time has passed between
                    the last sentence and this. Not another spree --at least, not like the other. I
                    have been re-reading all our favorite books -- 
                 But neither of us care to dwell on such boring subjects, do we? 
                 I want to pick up with Tasha and me walking about The Sleeping Flamingo, and
                    then, for the sake of literary convenience, to say that from a corner of the
                    yard I saw a neighboring house, and the sight filled me with darkest
                    forebodings. But the truth is that Tasha pointed it out from the one place where
                    it could barely be seen, and I only felt envy that it had been designed by
                    someone with understated good taste. "Who lives there?" I asked. 
                 "No one," Tasha replied. 
                 Truth is always more boring than fiction. For Malaquez did not move into Dream's
                    End until four or five months after I -- we? how does one speak to one's future
                    self? -- occupied The Flamingo. 
                 I do not plan to write a book: this narrative must move more quickly. Tasha and
                    I became lovers that evening, after a good dinner of paella at her apartment. I
                    made some small joke afterward, about approving of her firm's business
                    incentives, and she cried. Consoling her, I began to suspect I loved her. I
                    moved into The Flamingo the next day; and she gave up her apartment three weeks
                    later to join me. It was the sort of romance that happens so rarely that most
                    people believe it does not happen at all, the sort of romance that sustains the
                    hopeless billions who regularly watch A Wandering Star Called Love. (Which is to
                    say, you and me, Future Self.) 
                 Who was Tasha Cortez? She was a twenty-four-year-old (Terran Standard) N'Apulcan
                    who left university training in hydroponics to work for her aunt's real estate
                    firm. Her family said she did it to support her father, who was dying of a
                    particularly painful degenerative disease. Tasha said she woke up one morning
                    convinced that if she spent another day studying vegetables, she would become
                    one. 
                 She did not like my plays. I had impressed her because I was famous and amusing
                    and not, as I had hoped, because I was a great artist. That bothered (yes, and
                    intrigued) me until I realized that she was bored by most plays, movies, and
                    vid. She did not like being a spectator. I often told her that she should have a
                    bio-check to see if she suffered from some metabolic imbalance. I often told her
                    too many things. 
                 Search "Emiliano Malaquez" and you'll find he's a master of the "captured
                    moment" school of sculpture. Even The Terran Times has only praise for his work.
                    To compare his pieces to those of others is to compare mannequins to living
                    models. He accents the illusion of reality --I paraphrase his entry in La
                    Enciclopedia Humanica --by doing life-size scenes in "the full round," never the
                    easier frontal or three-quarters view. Moreover, he never did portraits of
                    famous people; his works were therefore the reality and could never be compared
                    to it. As is typical of his school, his pieces are sealed in stopboxes. The
                    shimmer of light on their surfaces always reminds us that we're looking at an
                    instant snatched from under the hooves of time. They say the cubes will outlast
                    planets and suns, that when the universe dies, the works of Malaquez and his
                    followers will be the last things seen in the final wink of God's eye. 
                 Yes, Self, I am also bothered that this observation ignores half-eaten cheese
                    sandwiches, incomplete insect collections, and locks of infants' hair, forgotten
                    in closets, basements, and warehouses. 
                 You see the inspiration for my latest play, "Captured Moments." The mindwipe
                    will take its creation from my future self --but time too often does that
                    without aid. The play's second act concludes with the last fight between Tasha
                    and me. I have disguised us in the play, and deleted one brief melodramatic
                    interchange. Now I will mention it, in case I/You decide to restore it. Shortly
                    before she left, Tasha said, "You steal from life for art, Bernardo. You'll
                    impoverish yourself." I only snarled at her and -- 
                 My story leaps ahead of itself. Let me retreat and retrench: 
                 One night during N'apulco's mild winter, Tasha returned to The Flamingo, saying,
                    "Nardo! Nardo! Guess what?" 
                 My mind was on other things. "You wish to become pregnant? I suppose I could
                    assist a friend. Purely for the sake of the race, of course --" 
                 "Ever the altruist. Still, if I do decide, we could practice --" 
                 Later, I said, "You've been chosen to succeed the Emperor." 
                 "What?" 
                 "My guess." 
                 She batted at my nose like a cat. "Silly Nardo." 
                 "Then I give up." 
                 "Emil Malaquez is buying the house up the hill." 
                 "Oh." 
                 "You don't know who he is?" 
                 "Well..." 
                 "Nardo!" One of the many things I liked about her was that she often thought me
                    shockingly ignorant. 
                 "That's, uh..." I am never so quick-witted in person as I am on the page.
                    Especially when someone thinks me shockingly ignorant. 
                 "You know, the sculptor. He's had shows in Brazil and New Madrid and everywhere!
                    He may be more famous than you." 
                 "Imagine that." I remembered an article in The Medusa and a photo of a work in
                    which 100-peso notes fell like confetti onto a small Undersider, sexlessly young
                    in grimy, oversized clothing. The child's face was a warground for wonder and
                    mistrust. Imprisoned light from forgotten streetlamps snagged itself on metal
                    threads in the fluttering pesos. The stars themselves might have fallen on the
                    Undersider and the event would have been no less strange, no less miraculous. "A
                    great artist will grace this world, then?" 
                 "Nardo!" She was never tolerant of my ego. 
                 "Well. What's this more-famous-than-me person like?" 
                 "I didn't meet him, jealous old one." 
                 "Too bad. If I thought he could free me from you --" 
                 "Hah!" She wrapped her arms around my stomach. "You'll never be free of me, old
                    man!" 
                 The next evening, she arrived with a stack of glistening stopboxes containing
                    sushi, sashimi, oysters in their shells, and Terran vegetables fresh plucked
                    from their hydroponic beds. Wondering about the reason for her extravagance, I
                    asked how work had gone that day. 
                 "Emil came in. He's taking Dream's End." 
                 "Emil?" 
                 "You've no memory left, old one. Emil Malaquez." 
                 "Ah. You did that to test my affections." 
                 "What?" 
                 "Calling him by his first name. I did that in a comedy once.'Nights with Karl
                    and Groucho.' It was before your time." 
                 "Oh." 
                 "The critics liked it." 
                 "I'm glad." A moment later: "That's not why I called him 'Emil'." 
                 "No?" 
                 "No. We lunched together. He's nice." 
                 "Oh." 
                 "It wasn't like that." 
                 "You're free." 
                 "Of course. Still, it wasn't like that. You think I sleep with every famous
                    person I meet?" 
                 As you may have guessed, we had talked about such things. I do not claim ours
                    was a perfect affair, only a wonderful one. 
                 "Tasha --" 
                 "Do you?" 
                 "No." 
                 "Good. I invited him to dinner tomorrow." 
                 "Oh?" 
                 "He'll be our neighbor. You say we're becoming too insular, that we need to
                    socialize --" 
                 "I've socialized for sixty-three years." 
                 "Nardo?" 
                 "Yes?" 
                 "How should I reply?" Her voice had grown quiet, and I began to feel some guilt.
                    I had, it is true, told her that we needed other company than our own. I said
                    this from years of learning that romances consume themselves without other fuel.
                    But knowing this did not mean I wanted it. 
                 I said, "Truthfully." It was the statement of a younger and crueler man than I. 
                 She screamed, "I haven't socialized with Terra's elite for most of my life! I
                    haven't socialized with hardly anyone for hardly any of my life! And I invite a
                    neighbor, one nice, lonely man --" 
                 "I'm sorry." 
                 " --who took me to -- What?" 
                 "I'm sorry. Truly." 
                 "Oh." She studied me as a suspicious puppy might, then said, "I'm sorry, too." 
                 "I suppose I sound like I'm bragging when I talk of the things I'm tired of." 
                 "Only because you are." She smiled. 
                 I had to grin, so I did. "True." 
                 "He may come to dinner?" 
                 "If you wish, he may be dinner." 
                 "I love you." 
                 "And I, you." Months earlier, we might have sought a bed, a couch, or a
                    comfortable chair at this point. Instead, I asked, "Is he handsome?" 
                 "You're jealous." 
                 "A tiny bit. Extremely." 
                 "Content yourself, old one. He's four inches shorter than I, his nose is big and
                    broken, and --" 
                 "This is cosmetic?" 
                 "He's not that ugly. I think they're his natural features." 
                 "Interesting." 
                 "You could write a play about someone like him." 
                 "Perhaps." 
                 "I think his face is his form of vanity. It's the reverse of you with those
                    ridiculous stomach muscles. Old men should be fat." 
                 "Is Emil?" 
                 "Yes." 
                 "I am jealous. I'll eat two dinners tonight. Five deserts." 
                 She giggled. And then we did make love. 
            
            

                 I've been thinking about the mindwipe, now two days away. Who said that those
                    who forget the past are doomed to repeat it? I fear that may be true for me. Add
                    this to the reasons I write now: to remember something, perhaps even to learn -- 
                 Emil Malaquez arrived after sundown, carrying a small package wrapped in what
                    looked like real paper. His evening dress was formal, expensive, and slightly
                    stained, as that of all forgetful artists should be. He was a jovial man with an
                    easy laugh, and even uglier than Tasha had suggested. I liked him immediately. 
                 "Seor Malaquez?" 
                 "Please. Call me Emil. You must be Bernardo. Tasha's told me much about you." 
                 "All of it outrageous praise?" 
                 "All of it." 
                 "Ah, she is wonderfully perceptive." 
                 He raised an eyebrow, then guffawed. "Has she said as much about me?" 
                 "She thinks you are a genius. Do come in." 
                 "Thank you." Stepping into the living room, he said, "A beautiful house." 
                 "I'm glad you came after dark." 
                 Tasha, by accident or design, had found an innocently erotic posture on the
                    couch, where she lay with a book of M'duvian prints. "Emil!" She leapt up. "I
                    did not expect you --" 
                 "So early?" 
                 " --on time. It's unforgiveable, but you're forgiven." She nodded at the
                    package. "What's that?" 
                 "For your kindness in inviting a stranger into your home." He held it out, and
                    with a delighted "Oh!" Tasha snatched it from him to rip away the paper. 
            
            
                 I stopped writing, and only the thought that I might miss the mindwipe kept me
                    from another spree. I went walking, but after N'apulco, Rio seems no fit abode
                    for a creature of flesh. I walked from this hotel to the old city, past the end
                    of the slidewalks and softwalks to the hard, cracked pavement of City Park. But
                    Undersiders left me alone. Perhaps they recognized a fellow ghost. So I
                    returned, and slept, and now the mindwipe is thirteen hours away. 
            
            
                 The side of Malaquez's parcel gave way to reveal a greenmunk caught in a sheen
                    of solid air. Bits of leaf mold flew from under his feet as he ran to greet a
                    friend or a bringer of food. Tasha oohed in awe. I said, "Frodo's been visiting
                    you, eh?" 
                 Malaquez said, "Your pet?" 
                 "Hardly. He lives around here somewhere. I suppose he was attracted to the
                    commotion up the hill." 
                 "Ah," Malaquez said. "Why 'Frodo'?" 
                 Tasha said, "A little fellow with big, furry feet. What else could he be
                    called?" She handed the sculpture to me. 
                 I almost dropped it; I expected it to weigh no more than a holo. "Heavy," I
                    said, as if he might not have known. 
                 He laughed. "My last piece was of four old Undersiders crouched around a trash
                    fire. Be glad someone didn't toss that to you." He spoke of his art with the
                    enthusiasm of a seven-year-old. "Um, I should wait to importune you, but..." He
                    grinned shyly. "A confession, and then a request. And then you must forgive me
                    for being so forward. It's not easy for me to ask a favor." 
                 "Relax," I said. "It's easy for me to turn one down." 
                 He glanced at me and decided I was joking. The surprising thing is that I was.
                    "Good. My last show --" 
                 " --was glorious!" Tasha said. 
                 " --was kindly received," he said. "But an artist who would stay first among his
                    fellows can tell when he begins to fail." 
                 "Oh?" I hoped no one would bring up my last three plays. 
                 "I must change my subject matter. No more urchins, dopers, vagrants, or whores.
                    I want to do more traditional portraits." He spoke quickly, prepared to be
                    rejected. "Would you permit me to do one of you? I would pay --" 
                 "Never," I said. 
                 "Ah." He shrugged lightly. 
                 "Nardo!" Tasha said. "It's an honor --" 
                 "Of course," I said. "That's why I cannot take payment." 
                 "Oh? Oh! Thank you!" Malaquez turned to Tasha. "And you as well? Perhaps the two
                    of you together?" 
                 Her eyes became circles at the idea of being, as she undoubtedly thought it,
                    immortalized by Emil Malaquez. Catching herself, she said casually, "Oh..." And
                    then she smiled, laughed loudly at herself in the way that always made me think
                    how much I loved her, and said, "My God, yes, yes, yes!" For a perfect moment,
                    Emil and Tasha and I were one entity, laughing until our lungs hurt. 
                 This is torture. I had not considered that I might not write to learn, but to
                    punish myself. Let me abuse the playwright and dismiss the penultimate scene in
                    a few sentences: After giving Emil full rights to a sculpture of Tasha and me,
                    we had a good dinner of curried clam chowder, lobsters boiled on Terra and
                    unstopped still steaming on N'Apulco, and cinnamon custard for desert. Then we
                    went out for a late swim. 
                 I had drunk too much, I confess, though we all had. Somehow, Tasha and I began
                    to argue the worth of Solevgrad jazz, as inconsequential a topic as I can
                    imagine. She had studied it in school, so she thought herself as an expert. I
                    once had a neighbor who played it constantly, loudly, and badly, so I thought I
                    knew it better. Malaquez tried to mediate, but I saw him as siding with Tasha.
                    So, I think, did she. The subject shifted from music to Tasha's obsession with
                    fame, undoubtedly by a leap that I made. She had no choice but to follow. (I do
                    not remember any of this well, just now, nor do I care to. Those who are truly
                    curious may look at the last act of "Captured Moments.") I remember suggesting,
                    with characteristic tact, that she add Emil to her small list of major
                    accomplishments. 
                 Malaquez glanced away, embarrassed. Tasha looked at me as if to say, "I will."
                    She said, "I feel sorry for you, Nardo. I'll see Emil home." 
                 "Yes," I said, "Do that," and did not care what she did, or why. 
                 Emil asked, "You're all right?" I muttered something he must have interpreted as
                    assent. They both walked up to Emil's home while I watched the scarlet moonlight
                    ripple on distant waves. Disgusted with Tasha but more disgusted with myself, I
                    finally realized she would not return that night and went into The Sleeping
                    Flamingo to drink myself to sleep. 
                 She had not come home when I woke in mid-morning. I waited, and drank a glass of
                    MorningAfter and three cups of coffee, and wondered whether our affair could
                    survive the events of the night, and whether I wanted it to. Perhaps I should
                    have invited Emil to stay, but even then I knew that sex was not the problem
                    between Tasha and me. The problem was that I have trouble distinguishing between
                    compromise and capitulation, between symbols and substance. Shortly before noon,
                    I climbed the sandy path to Dream's End, rehearsing my apology, slowing only to
                    pluck burrs from between my sandals and my feet. 
                 Malaquez answered the door in blood-red pajamas and a black silk robe. Sixty
                    years ago in a similar situation, I had broken my knuckles on someone's face. I
                    merely said, "Is Tasha here?" 
                 He pursed his lips slightly, then nodded. "Yes." 
                 "May I see her?" When he hesitated, I said, "Last night was my fault. I hold it
                    against neither of you. Please. Let me talk to her." 
                 "I --" 
                 "Please." 
                 He looked me and at last said, "Very well." 
                 We walked through his house in silence. It was as attractive and as impersonal
                    as a decorator could arrange for tenants of unknown taste. A tall, narrow
                    stopbox stood in the center of one room; sand trickled forever downward while
                    beads of water splashed across the sand's path. If that was Malaquez's work, it
                    was a very minor effort. But then, I was in no mood to consider art. I only
                    wanted to despise the man who had slept with my lover. That was easier than
                    despising myself. 
                 He paused before a bedroom door. "I should go in first. To prepare her." 
                 I smiled. "She handles surprise surprisingly well." 
                 "What would it hurt?" 
                 "True. Go ahead. Tell her..." I shrugged. "Tell her I love her." 
                 He studied me, then said, "I'm sorry things happened this way, Bernardo. I
                    didn't anticipate last night --" 
                 "I'm very good at making things happen this way. But if Tasha will forgive me
                    --" 
                 He nodded, repeated, "I am sorry," then slipped into the next room. I waited in
                    the dark, carpeted hall. A warm breeze came from silent vents above me. I heard
                    no voices until Malaquez said, "Enter." 
                 I blinked when I opened the door. Sunlight filled Malaquez's bedroom. Tasha lay
                    sprawled nude on a rumpled bed. Her skin seemed as smooth and as polished as the
                    bed's teak frame. She was looking slightly to my left, smiling with trust and
                    satisfaction like one sexually content. Malaquez stood near her, pointing
                    something at my chest. Though the morning sun shone fully on both of them, it
                    shimmered around Tasha. 
                 The part of my mind that remembered four months in NorAm during the Great
                    Cleaning sent me rolling across the floor. Malaquez was not prepared for me to
                    react so quickly, or perhaps he waited too long for an expression I would not
                    have, a gesture I would not make, a poignant moment of repentence, wonder,
                    despair, or love. Had he been faster, he could have had rage. I threw a chair at
                    him. As he fell, I scrambled onto him, my knees pinning his arms, my fingers
                    probing his neck. 
                 I shouted, "Where is she? Tell me, or I'll kill --" 
                 He began to cry. "She left. Earlier this morning --" 
                 Her clothes lay by the cube enclosing the bed. I hit him with the back of my
                    hand. "Tell me, Malaquez." 
                 "She wanted to be famous. She did! Now she will be." 
                 He seemed to expect me to understand. "Where!" I demanded, squeezing his throat
                    until he began jerking his head madly at the sculpture. 
                 I stared at the naked Tasha. Most of his story I have pieced together since, but
                    I understood enough as I knelt on his chest with my hands tight on his fleshy
                    throat. He had made his name with a home capturador. He began with small animals
                    and moved on to derelicts and Undersiders, people who would never be missed. Now
                    he had thought to use vacationers like Tasha and me, and when someone came
                    looking, he would say we had gone island-hopping in our windboat. Our boat would
                    disappear into the ocean to be found or not as the wind and tides chose. His
                    story would stand in either case. 
                 I wanted him to tell me more, but he babbled, begging me to forgive him, to
                    understand. I did not listen. I took the capturador, a matte black Tiempo
                    Capturado, from his grip and studied it, not really thinking about it or
                    Malaquez or Tasha. I think I was wondering what it meant to say that a thing was
                    art, so we accepted it as art. Or perhaps I was thinking about the things that
                    humanity made that would outlive our species. But I was probably only looking at
                    my reflection in the capturador's lens. Had he said then that I should use it on
                    myself, I might have. 
                 That moment passed. I looked at Malaquez. His eyes opened wider while we watched
                    each other. His lips contorted as if they had lost their ability to shape sound.
                    I turned to touch the cube that was Tasha's crypt. She smiled in trust or
                    pleasure or pride, an erotic Mona Lisa who would smile forever, and I could
                    never know why. 
                 The controls of the capturador were more complex than those of a kitchen model,
                    but I recognized the unstop tab. I could free Tasha. If I did, one of three
                    things would happen. Most likely: she would be meat --there is a reason why
                    stopboxes are most often used in kitchens. Less likely: she would live the rest
                    of her days with a mind as free of worry as a slug's. And the tiniest chance of
                    all: she would blink as if I had just materialized in Emil's bedroom, and then
                    she would laugh and tell me that she was going to be immortal. 
                 As I put my hand on the impervious surface of Tasha's stopbox, I heard Malaquez
                    run for the door. 
                 It is strange to know that we can do acts of unrepayable kindness to those we
                    should hate. Know this, my future self: Thanks to us, Emil Malaquez's name will
                    live as long as his masterpiece, "A Self-Portrait: Anguish," endures. 
                 And Tasha? I could say that I did not dare to take responsibility for her fate.
                    I could say that I chose out of consideration for her desire for fame; some
                    critics already say "Waking With Tasha" is Malaquez's finest work. If science
                    finds a way to safely free the subjects of Emil's art, perhaps the I who reads
                    this file will know that my decision is wise. But I cannot stop thinking that I
                    was never afraid of losing Tasha to brain damage or death. My fear is that she
                    would live, and I would learn that I had lost her long before Emil Malaquez
                    translated her into a thing that can be kept, admired, and loved. 
                 For in my way, I have done the same thing. 
                 I am ready for the mindwipe now. 

            
        
    



>Hotel California

Fact: Sound is a vibration. Sound travels as a mechanical wave through a medium, and in space, there is no
medium. So when my shuttle malfunctioned and the airlocks didn't keep the air in, I heard nothing. After the
first whoosh of the air being sucked away, there was lightning, but no thunder. Eyes bulging in
panic, but no screams. Quiet and peaceful, right? Such a relief to never again hear my crewmate Jesse natter
about his girl back on Earth and that all-expenses-paid vacation-for-two she won last time he was on leave. I
swore, if I ever had to see a photo of him in a skimpy bathing suit again, giving the camera a cheesy thumbs-up
from a lounge chair on one of those white sandy beaches, I'd kiss a monkey. Metaphorically, of course.

Fact: If, before all the air is sucked out of the ship, a person is so lucky to have stuffed him or herself
into a space suit, that person has less than twenty-four hours to live. This is more than the person would have
sans space suit. Me, I found a space suit, but it was statistically unlikely that I, and whomever else has
followed suit (pun intended), would manage to repair our ship before the less-than-twenty-four hours are up;
yes, studies have been done. So, twenty-four hours. Give or take.

About the time I was composing my last words in my head, trying not to think too much about what suffocating
felt like, that's when I heard a bell.

My first thought: I was going crazy. Twenty-four hours of silence (vacuum, remember); was I hallucinating
noises now?

I heard it again. It was a fine bell, reminiscent of ancient stone churches and the towering cathedrals I'd
seen in documentaries. And accompanying the bell, I saw a light.

Now, there were two things here that made ridiculously small amounts of sense. First, the whole in-a-vacuum
why's-there-a-bell thing. Second, I was floating in the dark remnants of my broken ship, and any conceivable
light sources were not within view; starlight is a distinctly different color and significantly less
bright.

These signals were the heralds of my saviors.

The first words they said to me meant nothing. I wasn't listening; I didn't care; I was going to live; I was
going to keep breathing. Next to those, nothing else mattered. The recycled air tasted sweet in my mouth, and
all thoughts that crossed my mind were cheap metaphors about life-giving substances and how breathing was like
sex, only better. (I reserved the right to revise this opinion later.)

When I was done mentally exclaiming over my impossible rescue, I looked around. The ship, it was odd and
old, either so outdated or so heavily modified that I couldn't tell what make it was, and somehow, the crew
standing around me fit the same description, a singularly atypical amalgamation of folk. And me, I guess I was
one more piece in their puzzle. I was one more scrap to weld onto the rest, one more stranded survivor who was
found.

I was now one of them.

This story, it's our story. The survivors of the unfortunate accidents, the catastrophic malfunctions, the
fateful crashes: this is us. Floating alone, each of us facing the silence of the vacuum, we were found.

Once found, we can never be lost.

This is our Hotel California.

We can never leave.

So, I'm on a ship now? You do this a lot?

A woman, introduced as Tiffany and neither tall nor beautiful, shrugged. Now and then.

What about my crewmates? Why didn't you save them? As much as Jesse had irritated me, I didn't like the
picture my brain drew of him floating in his grave, body swollen and bloated. Who would tell his girl how he
had died?

Couldn't, said the captain. Jefferson, he called himself, clean-shaven and smart, a picture of the perfect
entrepreneur. An opportunist and a businessman, that was Jefferson. We're selective about our passengers, he
continued. You fit the bill. They didn't.

Tiffany, she looked at the captain, grinned and flipped her greasy brown locks over her shoulder. She turned
to me. Come on, she said, before I could say anything else, let's get you settled in. No time for
questions. No time for answers.

 The ship had all the usual accoutrements (artificial gravity, tastefully painted walls, sound dampeners to
keep the noise of the engines from driving the crew batshit insane, recycled air systems), and a few
less-usual: lush carpeting, lighting that was decorative as well as functional, spacious corridors. The
occasional painting hung on the wall (generic landscapes and portraits of old people no one has ever met,
primarily). Glimpses of elegant rooms down the branching hallways; music; voices; the aroma of real food.

This was heaven. No seventy-two virgins, but it would do.

Where are we going? I asked.

Tiffany looked back. To your quarters. It's not far; you're not going to get blisters.

No, I meant, where's the ship going? What's our destination?

Tiffany, she stopped walking. She gave me a look, pitying and a little pleased that she got to be the one to
share the news. Honey, she said, You're going to be delighted. Destination everywhere. Destination
nowhere.

This was hell. I died in those last moments, suffocating on my own exhaled breath, and this, this was my
reward.

Fact: The speed of sound in dry air at twenty degrees Celsius or sixty-eight degrees Fahrenheit is three
hundred and forty-three meters per second, or one thousand one hundred twenty-five feet per second.

It took me a couple days to realize I was, in fact, still alive. I mean, sure, I'd had my moment of elation
when I had first realized I'd been rescued, but it didn't sink in. After watching my ship tear apart, after
spending a good twenty-three hours floating in silence in the wreck, wondering whether I was currently facing
stars belonging to the constellation Libra or the constellation Orion when those stars were viewed from Earth,
wondering what it felt like to suffocate, and after the feeling that yes, I was in fact going to die alone in
space had sunk in, it took time for that feeling to dissipate.

Fact: I wasn't dead.

After I realized this, I left my quarters. The lightscreen provided had informed me when and where official
meals were taking place, but I hadn't bothered to acknowledge the invitations. It hadn't seemed relevant,
somehow, given that I was still reeling over the explosion, the deaths of my crewmates, and the rescue. I've
heard there are a number of stages of grief and shock; I guess I was working my way through them. Food was
delivered to my quarters. Initially, I couldn't figure out whyI hadn't requested any be sent. Then I realized,
someone must have noticed I hadn't left, and was nice enough to send food my way. The accompanying bottle of
wine was a nice touch. I must have consumed it, too, because later on, the plates and the bottle were both
empty. I spent a lot of time lying on my back on the bed, staring up at the little etched swirls in the
ceiling, or slumped in the old-fashioned armchair, staring out the windows at the stars. I did a lot of staring
and not moving.

Man, was it good to be done with that stage. 

It was time to find out what hell looked like.

Fact: Hell is other people. Sure, the ship was spacious. We didn't pick up many passengersjust the select,
special few, scattered here and there between the stars. But we were all on this ship, and we were on it
together.

Cliques form in any decent-sized group of people. Me, I was singled out by Sarah, an unassuming
forty-something lady with a glass of champagne in one hand and the arm of a scrawny but tall blond man in the
other. She sidled up to me as I was scooping little round crackers and what appeared to be a baked cilantro
cream dip onto a plate. The plate, by the way, was already loaded with folded pieces of smoked pink fish,
paprika-dusted deviled eggs, toothpicks stabbed through green vegetables and slices of cheese, and balls of
meat smothered in a tomato-based sauce. Luxurious, even compared to the fare one would find in the high-class
space stations and pleasure cruisers. Compared to what a mere engineer would get on your typical cargo ship, it
was mouthwateringly, lip-smackingly gorgeous. I wondered if the food delivered to my quarters the past few days
had been similarly amazing. I decided it couldn't have been.

Liking the taste of the sweet life, eh? I'm Sarah, and this is Alexisyou must be the new pickup. She
looked me over approvingly. Come on, let's get you a glass of champagne. I looked longingly at the slices of
cheddar olive bread as she whisked me over to the bar, but didn't protest.

The bar was manned by an expensive humanoid robot. It turned toward Sarah's wave and acknowledged her with a
nod, moments later setting a fluted glass of sparkling liquid in front of her. I marveled at the robot's
smoothness and coordination. Clearly, it was a high-end model. Sarah transferred the glass to my free hand and
pulled me away from the bar for more introductions, with Alexis trailing after us.

I spent the evening listening, mostly. Listening and stuffing my face with all the bits of fine food
provided. No one minded; Sarah's inner circle was content to fill our circle of couches with plenty of chatter.
Ray, a plump man who was grey where he wasn't bald. Zheng, short and dark and lean, with a very intense gaze.
He made me a little uncomfortable. Kishori, petite, her hair strung out in a series of braids that reached
nearly to her waist. I categorized them based on their appearances, hoping I'd be able to pick them out of the
crowd again later. Most of their chatter was meaningless to mestories of day-to-day activities, how so-and-so
had been seen in so-and-so's table at lunch and my wasn't that a surprise, and why hadn't the chef concocted
this delectable a selection of appetizers for the dance the other night, but of course those rolled meat
pastries reminded one of the pastries back on Earth, didn't they, and this was somehow an interesting fact.

After the first half-hour, I stopped expending effort to keep names and stories and gossip straight. I
wasn't learning anything useful. I could have started asking questions, but I wanted to get my bearings first.
Tonight was for observation. I didn't bother trying to seek out a different group of potentially more
interesting people, though. They all looked the same: clusters of social butterflies surrounded by the less
apt, the hangers-on, the circle with whom the gossip was shared. I wondered at the ship instead. All the fine
food and the ornamental lighting, it had to be exorbitantly pricey to maintain. If the barkeep was any
indication, I suspected similarly high-class robots fulfilled other positions on the ship. How they were all
powered was a mysteryas good as the technology got, a quality robot like that was still an energy sink. It was
the brain, mostly; the amount of information the machine had to process to be able to function at the level it
did ate up a lot of resources.

Sarah's crowd took turns taking my champagne flute to the bar to be refilled, all seemingly pleased to have
a new set of ears to talk at. I slowly returned my attention to the conversation and was pleasantly surprised
to find that it had turned to a heated analysis of a recent abstract filmdone in the style of old flatscreen
moviesthat I had seen during off-time at Geminia Station.

By the end of the evening, when I finally followed the slow trickle of people out of the room, a satisfying
haze had settled on my mind. It was nice, I decided. This ship. This life. The nagging questions about where
the ship had come from and what its purpose in rescuing me was still nagged, but somehow, seemed less urgent.
Did it truly matter what the ship's origin was and why Jefferson had saved me, if now, I was content?

Fact: It's easy to fall into patterns. I would wake late, checking the clock on my room's lightscreen to
make sure I hadn't slept through brunch. I would join the rest of the ship for meals, and I would take my turn
in the weight room. I would watch old films on the entertainment screens, taking mental notes for later
dinnertime discussions. I would immerse myself in new virtual reality flicks. I would attend afternoon dance
classes, so that when the evening dances came around (modeled after the historical social gatherings of several
hundred years prior), I would be less of an embarrassment to myself.

I did not ask questions. I told myself I should. I told myself that tonight, the observation period would
end and I'd start puzzling out the ship's mystery. But I fell under the ship's sway. Bereft of my previous
familiar life, I latched onto Kishori and Ray and Zheng, and Sarah with Alexis dragged along on her arm now and
then (he was mostly her favorite dancing partner; she confided to us one night that his conversational skills
left something to be desired). I smothered thoughts of friends back on Earththis was my long-awaited vacation,
my clean break and my temporary retreat; I'd try contacting those friends tomorrow. I continued to care little
for shipwide gossip, but our discussions of films and flicks, old and new, brought out my artistic,
story-loving, argumentative side, a side of me I'd tucked into a back storage compartment during my years as an
engineer. It was a good life, if surreal. But I wasn't sure I wanted the dream stage to end.

Fact: Some places are timeless. Days passed, weeks passed, but I couldn't tell if it had been months or
years since I was rescued. All there was, all I remembered, was a blur. Gathering for drinks in the parlors,
playing dress up with all the fine clothes I found in the closets (some of it modern, some of it period dress
for special themed events), idling in the lounges. Now and then, a new face mingled in the crowd. Other faces
washed out, fading into the backdrop of carpets and fake glass chandeliers and the muted hum of the
engines.

One of these evenings, we were gathered in the South Ballroom for post-dinner drinks, lounging on couches
and watching other members of our populace move in circles on the dance floor. (The 'South' was in the title to
suggest that there were more ballrooms. There weren't.) Sarah's circle had picked up another newcomer,
Adrienne, a short blond girl who we all agreed was barely old enough to attend a traditional university back on
Earth, let alone work on the ship in whose wreck Jefferson had found her. Maybe it was her curiosity, asking a
question I should have asked long before, that turned the conversation serious; maybe there was just something
special about that evening. Maybe we had all tired of the frivolity of our life, hitting some threshold or some
breaking point. Regardless, when Adrienne asked what the ship's purpose was, we all gave it a measure of
thought. We dredged up half-fledged theories and inchoate explanations, tossing these out the same way we
pitched ideas about the art films.

I believe we'll see the end of the universe, said Tiffany. Captain's cohort, she had a glass of
orange-brown liquid in one hand; it might have been orange juice and some kind of berry liquor. She swirled it
speculatively. I watched Adrienne. She tilted her head, listening, not speaking.

Impossible, said Zheng, sitting in the chair to her left. We can't live that long.

Maybe the universe will end sooner than you think, said Jefferson. Yeah, the captain was there, with the
rest of us. He didn't drink, but he made a point of mingling with all the various cliques.

Maybe we'll travel at the speed of light and we won't age, said Sarah, setting her wine glass on the
little round end table by her couch. Maybe we're already traveling at the speed of light. 

Tiffany, she nodded eagerly. Relatively says it all.

Zheng scoffed. Also impossible. Even if we were traveling at ninety-nine percent of the speed
of lightthat's assuming you ignore science and pretend that such a thing is possible, because it isn'twe'd
still age. We'd just appear to age slower than people not traveling as fast as us.

And? said Sarah. Aging is relative, anyway. Besides, I wouldn't mind being around forever. Give our
ancestors purpose. Keep their dreams alive.

New hypothesis, suggested Kishori, slipping into the conversation. No one's immortal. In fact, the
opposite: We're all going to die.

Bleak, commented Zheng. But I like it. He grinned at Sarah, who frowned. Ray took a drink from his glass
of ice water, and shook his head.

We're all going to die, so what better thing to do than enjoy the time we have? Kishori gestured to the
bar, the carpets, the paintings. All the luxuries money can buy.

Tiffany took a drink, thinking. All the luxuries money can buy, she echoed.

Zheng looked skeptical. Paid for how?

Smuggling, responded Kishori. Matter-of-fact. Jefferson snorted, amused. Think about it, Kishori
continued, where else would we get the money to buy all this?

Renegade smugglers. So what's our cargo, eh, captain? Zheng joked, leaning back in his chair with his
glass of wine.

Jefferson shook his head and stood up. I'll leave you to your speculation, he said. A chorus of good
nights followed him out the door.

After the captain left, Zheng leaned in. He set his glass down on an end table, steepled his fingers
together. We're revolting, he told us. And I don't mean that you disgust me. No, we're the start of a
rebellion. Did you hear what the captain said earlier? He means, we're going to change the future. The universe
as we know it won't be the same.

That's dumb, said Sarah. Wouldn't we know it if we were part of a rebellion?

Zheng shook his head. The captain selected us for a reason. He has inside intelligencehow else would he
know where to find us? He knows about us.

That's still dumb, said Sarah. Inside intelligence? Don't you remember, there's not exactly one big
galactic government from which to steal information.

I still like my idea, said Tiffany.

Me, I followed Adrienne's example and didn't speak up (fabricating excuses to myself to stay safely in
gather-info observation mode), though I thought Zheng had a point. Jefferson didn't share how he found people.
He didn't share how he knew exactly where the wrecks were, or why he saved some people but not others. But then
again, no one asked. I guess we all figured, he knew what he was doing. He had been at this savior business
longer than any of us. I wondered if Adrienne would ask about that.

We're going to mean something, Zheng was saying. What we do, rebelling against the oppression of the many
governments that oppose us, we're going to leave a legacy. He sounded certain. Enthusiastic, even.

Ray, he shook his head, and broke the quiet he'd held most of the evening. You've got it all wrong. He
looked from Sarah, to Adrienne, to Zheng, to Kishori and Tiffany, to me. Obviously, we can't last longer than
the rest of the universe. We aren't giving anyone purpose. We're not even going to leave a legacy. All we're
doing is existing. All we're doing is eating and drinking and shitting, breathing and fucking and nothing
important, ever. We aren't special.

Again, bleak, commented Zheng. Adrienne gestured for him to be quiet. She leaned forward, setting her
elbows on the foot stool in front of her.

You never know when it will end, Ray continued, not addressing any one of us in particular. You can't
hold on forever, even if you don't ever, ever want to forget. How long until the memories slip away? How long
until all you remember is this, the ship, the thick red carpeting, the chandeliers, the empty conversations you
hold with the other shells who used to be people? When your life, the reason you lived, the people and faces
and places, the emotions you felt, who and what you loved, when all that is gone, faded, what will you have
left?

I wondered how long Ray had been on this ship. I wondered why, if he had such an unpropitious outlook, he
hadn't tried to change his situation. I wanted to ask, but he was still talking, and I was too self-conscious
to interrupt.

You can try to hold on, said Ray. You can try and try and try. Repeat stories to yourself in the
artificial night, sketch faces in your mind. You can make their names your mantra. But words, if you repeat
them enough times, lose their meaning. Emily emily em-ill-ee em-i-lee eh-mill-ee eh-mih-lee. My wife's name,
once. Repeat it enough times, it's just a sound. No longer grounded.

Ray, he said, If we last forever, if our eyes are the last eyes watching as the stars blink out, it won't
mean a thing to us. We won't care that we're last and we won't care that there are no more stars. We aren't
angels. We're just dumb and lucky.

Pure dumb luck, he said.

Struck a nerve, huh? said Zheng. 

Sorry, said Ray. 

How long ago was that? asked Adrienne. Leaving your wife, I mean. Traveling on this ship.

Ray, he looked down at his hands, folded together in his lap, fingers interlaced. I don't know, he said.
We were all quiet for a moment. Ray shrugged, then got up and left. We let him go. Silent. Self-conscious. More
excuses were made, and after a few moments, only Adrienne and I were left sitting in the ballroom. She looked
across the circle of couches at me.

What's your theory? she asked me.

I shrugged.

How long have you been here?

Not that long, I said. A couple weeks, I guess. Maybe a month or two.

Why don't you know for sure? she asked.

I shrugged. I hadn't been counting days.

What did you do before this? How were you found?

I was an engineer. I explained how my ship had malfunctioned, no warning at all. The explosions, the
impossible rescue. I don't know how Jefferson knew to find me there.

She nodded. The ship I was on, I guess that's what happened, too. Some vital part broke, and... well,
boom. It was all so fast. She took a sip of her drink, plain water because, she had explained
earlier, she had never liked the taste of alcohol, then fixed her gaze on me. I'm going to figure it out, she
said. How and why this ship exists. I'll figure it out, then I'm going to find a way home.

I paced my room that night, unable to sleep. The more I thought about it, the less sense the ship made.
Worse, Adrienne had made this clear to me with a single question. I had spent weeks asking nothing, contentedly
getting nowhere.

Fact: Adrienne intimidated me.

Fact: It's too easy to fall into patterns.

I resolved to break the pattern.

Another evening, another chandeliered room, another swirl of conversations and dances and hor d'oevres.
Another circle of chairs and couches, another uncomfortable question.

Has anyone ever left? Adrienne looked at each of us in turn.

Ray exchanged a glance with Zheng.

Sarah frowned. Now that you mention it, I haven't seen Alexis in days. I assumed he was indisposed.
Kishori nodded in agreement.

I looked at Ray and raised an eyebrow. What?

Well, Ray said, slowly, People do leave. The approximate number of people at any given event
is always the same. But we see new faces.

You're sure it's not just some people being indisposed ?  asked Adrienne, using Sarah's
phrasing.	

Zheng shook his head and picked up a handful of candied pecans from a little dish on the end table. Keep
adding people long enough, regardless, you get more overall. A couple people staying in their rooms, even if
you switch out the people, won't make a difference. He dropped the pecans back into the dish, one by one.

So where do they go? Adrienne focused on Zheng. 

I cut in. Maybe a better question is, does anyone ever come back?

Ray and Zheng exchanged another glance. Kishori chewed her lip. Sarah shrugged and sipped at her drink.
After a moment, Ray said, I don't think so.

Are there patterns? Adrienne asked. Who leaves?

Again, there was an uncomfortable moment of silence. I hazarded a guess. You don't notice, do you.

Sarah looked indignant. Of course we notice. But... well, no one important ever disappears, so it doesn't
really matter, does it. I could tell she was trying to remember whom she had known who had left, and failing.
No one contradicted her. No one offered a different answer.

I looked at Adrienne. Mission accomplished: Our routine insouciance had been disrupted. The scales had
tipped. Even when the conversation returned to lighter tones, as it soon did, I dwelt on Adrienne's questions.
From the looks on my companions' faces, I knew they were thinking the same.

How long have you been here?

The question, previously posed to me, was presented to the rest of our group (excluding Ray; Adrienne had
been tactful enough to wait until he had gone for a refill, recalling the last time the subject was
broached).

Sarah, she tilted her head and tapped a finger on the side of her wine glass. A long time. Got to be months
and months, at least.

You were here before I was, said Kishori, and so was Tiffany.

I looked at Zheng; he shrugged. Time passes in a weird way here. I kept track for a whilethirty-eight
daysbut after that... I guess I didn't see the point.

Fact: Some places are timeless.

Why not? asked Adrienne.

Days don't matter, he said. The eleventh of a month or the seventeenth, whether it's Wednesday or Sunday,
summer back on Earth or winter, it doesn't affect us here.

Tiffany nodded, but Kishori spoke before the other woman could. Why are you so interested? she asked
Adrienne.

Adrienne met her gaze. I don't want to be here forever.

But we're not here forever, objected Sarah. Remember? Alexis left.

Disappeared, I corrected her. We don't know how or why he left. Or where he went.

Zheng looked thoughtful. He picked up his glass, swirled the liquid around, took a sip, then set the glass
back down. He glanced around at the rest of us. Do you want to leave? he asked. Could you live anywhere else
now?

I spoke up. Yes, I said. I wouldn't miss this, much. No one else said anything. I watched Adrienne's
eyes move from one face to the next.

Zheng, he addressed me again, leaning forward with his elbows on his knees and an intense, steady gaze. You
think that, he said, but is it true? Would you be happy back in a normal life, working and living and crying
in the drudgery of whatever the hell normal is these days?

I didn't answer.

Fact: It's too easy to fall into patterns.

Fact: I wasn't sure I wanted the dream stage to end.

My quarters felt stifling. Asphyxiating my mind. I sat sideways in the armchair, feet dangling over one arm,
neck resting against the other, absently tracing invisible lines between the stars outside my window as I
ruminated on the situation. The lightscreen had proved singularly unhelpful. I inspected the arrays of
entertainment optionsabstract, old-style flatscreens, engrossing VR flicks and action games, a selection of
quondam bestsellers and a few recently released novels hoping to gain popularity. There was a schedule
advertising upcoming on-ship events, such as dance classes, craft sessions, and discussion groups, and a list
of dinner invitations for me to respond to. A menu of display options, allowing me to customize all the
lightscreen's superficial characteristics. A simple contact system for communicating with other people on the
ship. That was all.

A methodical search of my two adjoining rooms, the ample closet space, and the attached bathroom facility
had similarly provided no fodder. Furniture (dark wood, expensive, polished, no secret compartments), clothes,
leftover tray of half-consumed food from the previous day's lunch, toiletries (complete with miniature bottles
of sweet-smelling apricot honey lotion), lightscreen, me.

I was discouraged and frustrated. I wanted to prove to Adrienne that I wanted solve the ship's mystery just
as much as she did. I wanted to find something, anything, that would prove all this was normal and sane. I
didn't want to think about disappearances and time and purposes and consequences.	

I wanted my contentment back.

I cornered Adrienne at dinner that night. In one hand I balanced my plate of star-shaped crackers, globs of
elegant dips and garnishes, little rolled balls of meats and cheeses stabbed through with spears of some pale
green plant, and an array of other delectable, bite-sized items. My other hand pointedly steered Adrienne to a
small table against a wall. She glared at me, but obediently let me pull her along.

Tell me, I said, after we sat, what you have found. It wasn't a question.

She gave me a grumpy look that informed me, quite clearly, of her current opinion of me. Not if you're
going to be rude about it.

I sighed. Sorry. I wasn't, not really, but I'd lie to get the conversation going. I want to know. I
explained, in two brief sentences, my earlier impasse.

I don't know much, she said, still annoyed but at least cooperative. She reviewed the information gleaned
from our previous dinner conversations, adding, I heard the captain say something yesterday, as I walking to
the Pyrope Parlor. I was just coming up on a corner and he was around the other side, talking to a couple
people, and they must not have known I was there. He said something about a wreck going well. And listen, when
they came round the corner, Ray was with the captain.

The next time the captain stopped by our group, Tiffany tagging along (pretending that she, too, was a
social butterfly who could mingle equally well with everyone), we were ready.

Is there a doctor on board? asked Adrienne. I've been having headaches. It was a lie, but we needed
information.

Jefferson nodded. Down past the Emerald Lounge, second door on the left. All hours. A robot, then. Medical
AI were even more expensive than the barkeep. I wondered how many people it treated. Had anyone on the ship
ever fallen seriously ill?

Does he age? asked Adrienne.

The captain? I shrugged. I never thought about it.

Adrienne steepled her fingers and studied my face. That doesn't answer my question, she said.

Adrienne only picked at her food. 

Not hungry? asked Kishori sympathetically.

No, said Adrienne.

At least have a drink, said Sarah. I find it takes the edge off.

She doesn't drink, remember? said Kishori.

Maybe that's the problem, said Sarah.

One hundred and forty-seven is a magic number, said Sarah. You ever heard of Dunbar? Well, we've got the
perfect-size group right here. Just enough for us all to recognize each other. Just enough for us all to be
able to barely avoid killing each other.

Why doesn't anyone mutiny? Adrienne asked. If you dislike this place so much, why don't you do something
about it?

We can't, said Ray. What would we do?

Adrienne shook her head and made a sound of disgust. You could force the captain to set down somewhere. Let
us off the ship. If he refuses, threaten him. If he still refuses, well, of all of us, isn't there
someone who can drive a ship?

That's murder, objected Sarah.

That's survival,  Adrienne corrected her. Do you want to be stuck here for the rest of your
life?

Sarah didn't reply.

I shifted my feet in the plush green carpeting of the Emerald Lounge, looking out the windows at the stars.
Times like that, running on less sleep than I should, alone because everyone else had had the sense to retire
for the night, I had a tendency to get all meditative about the universe and my place in it. The stillness of
the room contributed, as did the view. Black and more black, speckled by tiny points of light that flared up to
break the emptiness, if only for a brief time. All of it was temporary, save for the black. That was tonight's
melodramatic theme: the ephemeral nature of life. Everything temporary. Everything to fade away, lost as dust
and scattered atoms between the stars, and every one of us to be left as alone as the moment we were born.

Thinking about that, I wondered if Sarah's theory was right after all. Some things in this world, we have to
make them permanent ourselves. And Jefferson, he had done that. He had made us a constant. He made this
shipthis lifea constant. The one thing that was known. The one thing that wouldn't change.

Maybe everything we did, all the stories we told, maybe it was all lies. Maybe we'd never know each other,
not truly, because we all hid behind the stories, creating the realities we wanted to see. But ultimately, this
ship, its purpose, our purposedid it matter? We each had our own theory. Maybe that was enough. And all of us,
we were permanent characters in each others' stories. Maybe that made us more real. Maybe it made us feel less
alone.

Mind if I join you?

I turned to see Adrienne in the doorway. She smiled, then crossed the room to join me by the window, not
waiting for an answer. 

Some nights, I said, I can't see the meaning in any of it. All these things I do, they're just to pass
the time until I die.

Adrienne looked at me, then back out through the window. You don't see a meaning because there is no
meaning, she said.

After all of it, as much as we feared being alone, we feared being vulnerable even more. Our instinct was to
hide.

Look what I found, Adrienne said. In her hands was a bottle.

And what happens to Adrienne?

I couldn't find her.

Jefferson was in the Captain's Lounge, 

Fact: Sound is a vibration. The speed of sound in dry air at twenty degrees Celsius or sixty-eight degrees
Fahrenheit is three hundred and forty-three meters per second, or one thousand one hundred twenty-five feet per
second.

Up his dosage, I heard the captain say. I've got a replacement lined up.

I ran.

I didn't want to forget.

I didn't want to be harvested.

The last thing I remember, I was tearing down the corridors. Life boats, I thought. Every ship had life
boats. In case of emergency, break glass. I'd find one. I'd put on a space suit, I'd get out of this ship, I'd
find civilization again. A planet. A space station. Some other ship. Any place but this place.

Failing all else, I'd suffocate. Alone.

Ray, he caught me as I pounded on the corridor walls, finding no glass to break. Relax, he told me,
sliding a needle into my arm. It'll pass, he told me. He held me in his arms until I stopped flailing.

It passed.

This is my Hotel California.

I can never leave.


Tara stood stock-still, waiting for the first tiny gleam from the scout craft to
appear in the darkness of the wormhole. The gentle constant breeze of recycled
air from the vent above blew an annoying hair against her nose, but she ignored
it.

A gasp from the psychic broke her silent vigil, and she turned.

"Results, Harmon?" she suppressed the surge of annoyance that ran through her as
she contemplated the psi's gift of getting all the hot news first.

Harmon's face slowly animated - joy sweeping in to replace stern concentration.
"Tarrin says the planet's a freaking gemstone! Thriving with life, large and
small forms, no buildings of any kind, hydrocarbons, metals, and a stable
atmosphere. He's not even bringing them back through for a face to face
briefing. He says we should come through now, immediately, before the probe is
reported late."

"Harmon, tell that good for nothing son of a beta to get his hindquarters
through the gate and back here NOW, or I'll open fire on him when we come back
through." Tara fumed. Of all the impertinence! Tarrin, no doubt with orders from
Mason, was questioning her command decisions. That's what I get for not using
mercenaries.

She returned to her watch, regarding her own reflection in the long window.
Mahogany-black curly hair, cut short in the typical military style framed a
careworn, dark-skinned face. It was not an attractive face right now; her ebony
eyes shadowed by hours on the watch, full lips pursed with frustration. She had
the look of every leader she had ever known. At six foot two, she stood a full
head taller than even her Arrallin first officer. Her glowering expression
completed the imposing effect. She picked imaginary flecks off her stark gray
jumpsuit, and snorted. You look like hell, Tar. Don't blow this. Don't let
fatigue get to you.

She used the discretion of the mirrored window to secretively survey her crew.
Harmon was an excellent addition to the bridge team, but was she open minded
enough to defy United Earth Command and sever all ties from Earth? She watched
the psi bob her head, unaware of the rest of the bridge, shaking blonde curls as
she chattered away with the approaching psi relay on Mason's ship. She seemed so
depthless - self conscious and shallow on the outside, but having that
incredible gift. There had to be more to her.

Well, if she didn't pan out, she'd be terminated. Any crew member that would
jeopardize the project was meat. It would be a shame to lose that talent,
though.

Rakal, her first officer, was staring pensively at his panel. He was what this
was all about. She watched his graceful fingers ending in thick black claws tap
out calculations on the panel. His pointed ears swiveled back and forth,
catching every sound from the bridge, while his long tail swished to the rhythm
of his thoughts. Only those of the Arrallin Insurrection inner team knew he was
no common 'beta furry'. His silken fur, which would be tawny golden and striped
with jet black bands, was dyed perfectly to a pure black, and his mane trimmed
and thinned as to be indistinguishable from the rest of his coat. His eyes had
been treated and darkened to a rich purple to disguise the brilliant golden
yellow color that would mark him as an Alpha Arrallin, and leader of his hive.
Right now, he looked like an overgrown wolf who'd learned touch-typing.

The scout ship re-emerged from the hole - a brilliant speck emerging from a
sphere of velvety blackness. It's hail crackled across the comm, and Tara spun
to retake her seat at the helm. "Launch the second probe. Won't Central be
crushed to learn that another gateway has yielded little more than a class F
planet and a white dwarf system. Level 1 and 2 staffers should prepare to be
briefed and move out. This sounds like it's the one." The distinctive whuffle of
pleasure rippled through the betas on the bridge, and Rakal let loose a small
growl, as if to caution his charges against false hope. They'd scouted
twenty-seven gates so far, and none had turned up anything worth the
Insurrection's time. Tara would not let giddy hopes drag them onto a rock that
would spell the end for the project, and the Arrallin species.

   
      
         
            Foster A. Ranney
            Nathans Bylichka
            
            Dedicated to Neil Gaiman, Radiohead and Black Sabbath
            
            Strange things have always happened to my family. It came in through my mother's blood; my Russian grandmother would always tell me stories, bylichkas, of ancestors with the "second sight", stupid mill owners who discovered bags of gold after letting a special fish off their hooks, and dark strangers who used to appear to help or interfere at crucial times. When I asked her if she'd ever seen them  before I was old enough to stop believing, I mean  she would always look sad and tell me, "No, not since the family came to America has anything happened to us. But if you ever should see a faerie, tell him that you are of the blood of Ivan Bogatyrivitch and he will not pass you by so quickly." As I got older, I shook the tales off with a nod and a "Yes, Nana."
            I got older and went to school, then to college, and I replaced the dreams my Nana gave me with the music DJs mixed for crowds in clubs, webs of pulse that shook us until we could believe anything. My girlfriend Rachel and I would go to the clubs near our school. Sometimes we'd get word that people were gathering under one of the bridges, and we'd rush down to hit it before the cops broke it up. Boston is a strange place at night. You wouldn't believe half of the shit I've seen, even when I was straight.
            It was a Friday night. Rachel and I went out to dinner, and when we finished, she saw that there was a message on her cell phone. She checked it there in the restaurant. Her head tilted into the phone as she listened, her pleather purse on her lap, shining jet against the worn black of her snug Dead Can Dance T-shirt. Its from Mitch, she said, folding up the phone. He says we should meet him tonight, theres a good one going on in that church that closed down last month.
            I dont know  it was going to be just us tonight. Im not sure Im up for a night out. I was feeling calm and private that night. It seemed like tonights darkness was small and personal, cupped hands offering a place for two, not the burning, open darkness of a rave.
            Baby, lets go. Its been over a week, and I want to dance. Lets go together, you know youll have fun once you get into it. She bit the inside of her bottom lip, looking at me like I was breaking her poor, sweet heart. Im a sucker for that, and she knows it.
            Okay, Rachel. Lets go, youre probably right.
            She grinned and gave me a kiss across the table, her lips soft and firm and sticking just enough that she gave the feeling you were really kissing, not just pressing your face into someone elses. 
            Lets not get fucked up tonight, though, okay, Rache? We dont  
            Sure, babe. Come on, I dont have to get fucked up every time we go out just to enjoy myself. Lets not waste any more time. She stood up and I followed her out to the street. It was dark enough that I could actually see a few stars through the screen of city light. Without hearing the car horns, I could almost taste the air of late March through the street fumes. If it was March, that meant that wed been together almost a year and a half. It was last February, after the winter break, that we moved in together. Now spring was back, under the concrete, and I could smell it even here.
            Isnt it an amazing night, Rache? Even the city feels alive when spring comes.
            Taxi! She waved down a car and pulled me in. In a few minutes, we were getting out a block down from the abandoned church. After she paid the driver, she grabbed my arm, laughing, and we ran down the street. I heard the pulse already. We slammed against the doorway and I was laughing too, the pulse close enough to shake the doorframe and set up vibrations in my chest, Rachel in my arms because shed used me to soften her landing. We kissed and slipped inside.
            The old vaulted church was stripped down: there was no cloth on the altar, just a DJs toolkit and his beer. Through the dark, I could see three bolts left in the wall from where theyd taken down the crucifix. A confessional too beaten-up to have been sold was shaking in a way that suggested activity inside, and where the pews had been taken out, a couple hundred people were testifying to the DJs moving sermon.
            Rachel stepped forward into the crowd while I took a moment to drink in the ceilings blue-lit, shadowed vault and the light-catching haze from who-knows-what rising between the DJ and the crowd. There was a terrific echo, each beat reverberating inside of the next, and the old stained-glass windows rattled in their frames. On the dance floor, people moved with their eyes closed and their hands in the air.
            I danced with Rachel for a while, but then something by the bar seemed to be pulling her eyes. She told me that she was heading for a drink and slipped out of the crowd. 
            When she hadnt come back halfway through the next song, I glanced over at the bar. It was just a little set-up where someone had stacked a few crates and brought something alcoholic to share, mostly beer. Rachel was standing with a plastic cup, looking like she was having a conversation, but I couldnt see anyone else there. The next time the crowd split, I saw him. He stood in front of a blue light, so I couldnt see him clearly, but what I saw was memorable. He wore a jacket of what might have been blue velvet, and his hair gleamed black against his white skin. The blue haze seemed to stop just shy of his pallor, setting off his striking face without illuminating its details, and his wrists flashed white in the darkness. He didnt move, just stared and held his drink. 
            The next time I saw them, his mouth was moving. She nodded and he took her arm. I watched them through the crush of dancers as they squeezed along the wall, and the feeling came to me that something was very wrong.
            Saturday morning, I woke up and saw that she still hadnt come home. I called Mitch and our other friends, hoping that shed crashed at one of their houses, but I had no luck. A couple of them remembered seeing her leave, but none of them had seen the thin man with her. I didnt know how they could miss such exotic features, even in that distorting light.
            I caught a taxi back to the church. It was still a mess, but everything bigger than a soda can had disappeared. I walked across what had been the dance floor. The church was completely different now: sunlight fell through the stained glass, catching dust that still hung in the air and sending a dry, healthy warmth into the edges of the room, through the stone and the powdery concrete that had been covered last night by flesh and flashing lights. I realized that Rachel had disappeared without leaving a clue and I had no way to do anything but wait for her to show up  which, if she were in a situation where I should be doing something, would probably be never.
            Standing in the center of the church, I took out my cell phone and called the police. I need to file a missing persons report. Rachel Frieze. Last night, walking on West 2nd street around  maybe eleven or twelve oclock. What? But, sir, this is an unusual situation. She didnt come home last night, none of her friends have seen her. Sir, if shes in any danger, it will probably be too late to help her by that time. My girlfriend has disappeared, I dont even know where to start looking, and I need help! Yes, sir. I understand. The police wouldnt file a report for someone whod been missing overnight. I closed the phone. 
            Walking out of the church, a little gust of cold air caught me by surprise. A cold front must have hit while I was inside. Glancing down the street, I realized that I didnt have a friend to drive me home this time, and it was a long walk back to the streets where taxis ran. I pulled my T-shirts sleeves down my arms as far as theyd go, but I wasnt ready for cold. 
            Walking didnt build up much heat; it just moved the air enough to chill me more. After Id walked about a block, a car rolled up behind me. It slowed down as it neared me and I started to worry. This wasnt the best of neighborhoods. I kept my eyes straight ahead and tried to walk more quickly without showing it. 
            I heard an automatic window roll down. Hey, said a male voice, do you need some help?
            I turned around. The man looked over forty, and he was driving a car Id be afraid to drive on this street. Its a long way to anywhere worth going, he said. Would you like some help?
            Ah, I think Im fine, thanks, I told him, and turned back to the sidewalk.
            Really, Id like to help. Please, hop in. You dont look dressed for this weather.
            I glanced back over my shoulder. No thanks, sir! Im just fine. Really, dont worry about me.
            Nathan Spencer, I offer you help. I advise that you not refuse me a third time.
            I stopped and looked back at him, surprised. He met my eyes coolly. How do you know my name?
            I know your family. Get in. We have a lot of work ahead of us, and its best to start now.
            I walked around the car and got into the passenger seat. Before I had my belt on, we were rolling forward. Okay, I said. Im in the car. Now, will you tell me how you know my family, and how you happened to be driving by just now? In fact, why didnt you call me by name the first time? And how did you recognize me when  
            Thats enough! I can only answer one question at a time. I know your family because an ancestor of mine made a bargain with an ancestor of yours. I am here now because you called for help, and no-one else would answer. He turned onto the next street and shifted up. I will help you find your Rachel. I have to warn you, though, you wont like what I have to tell you.
            I shivered. Something in his tone couldnt be disbelieved. Tell me anyway. If shes in trouble, I want to find her, wherever she is.
            My driver took a deep breath. As he did, his neck stretched in a strange way and I noticed several thin lines, like wrinkles, running across the sides of his neck. Nathan, he began in the way that people speak when they start a long and difficult explanation, Rachel met someone last night whom it is best never to meet. This person, like me, is not a member of traditional society. You see, Nathan, there is separate from your society oh, damn it. Ive never had to give this conversation before. Come on, I have something to show you. With that, he made a sharp turn onto a side street that I hadnt noticed before. We drove between slummy housing and storefronts so decayed that I couldnt tell whether they were abandoned. My driver turned again next to an old warehouse that I might have been in once when Mitch took us to a rave in sophomore year. 
            In front of a few houses, there were cars parked, but there were almost none on the streets. Their bumpers looked ready to drop off, and their paint was half smog. I got a strange feeling that we werent supposed to be driving here. Hey, I said, are you sure that we should be going this way? I mean   
            Just ignore that, he told me. Youll be used to the sensation in a moment. That just unnerved me more. As we kept driving, the anxiety grew more pronounced. I noticed that there were some people on the street, people the same color as the soiled buildings. Someone standing just in the lip of an alley glared at me with gleaming eyes. Okay, this is the spot, said my driver, pulling over. He parked and got out. 
            Is it really safe to leave the car  he was already walking toward the squat, brick-windowed building we were parked next to. Glancing back at that gleaming glare, I decided that it might be safer to follow the driver than to wait with the car. I hopped out, ran after him, and reached him just as he was knocking on the door. Someone opened it a crack, then ushered us in.
            Inside, the building opened up. The ceiling was high and wooden, and I could see part of a DJs booth down the hall. It looked like we were in the back of a nightclub. Then I looked down and saw what had let us in. Nepthys, my man! What up? The hunchbacked being who let us in held out a scraggly paw for him to slap. Nice, my man, he said as they clasped hands. Whos the freak?
            This is someone from Ivans family. Did I ever tell you about them?
            Yeah, one time, man, but you were pretty fucked up. Whats your problem, kid?
            The hunchbacked man came up to my stomach. His skin was brown and stretched, like some diseased saplings bark. It pulled back around his fingertips, which bore things that might have been nails or claws. When he grinned, I saw that his teeth were sharp and small, like a hunting cats. Under matted hair, his eyes had slit pupils.
            Nepthys quickly answered for me. Girlfriend troubles. She came down here with someone after a party, and I dont think it was one of your average pixies.
            Bummer. So, whats the cat look like?
            He turned to me. Nepthys nodded: Its okay, you can trust him. Thats why we came here.
            It was easier to talk than to question. I I noticed him from across the room when I was looking around for Rachel. He was standing right in front of some blue lights, so I couldnt see him very well, but I noticed the way that the light set off his pale skin. It almost looked like the light bent around him without actually touching him directly. He was slim, almost drawn, but he had a kind of  luster to him, I guess. He wasnt a person youd describe with normal adjectives, you know?
            They nodded. Oh, totally, said the hunchback. I get that all the time around here.
            He was wearing a sort of jacket maybe blue velvet, I couldnt tell in the dark, but it had ruffles at the throat, things like that. He really stood out. Thats why I couldnt understand why no-one else remembered him. He had some rings, too. I remember that he hardly ever moved, just stared at Rachel. Even when he talked, he hardly opened his mouth. I dont know how he couldve been heard over the music.
            The two glanced at each other. What do you think? asked the hunchback.
            Ive looked into it a little, and I do think we might be dealing with one of them. Have you seen anyone like that in your club?
            Not that I can remember, man. I can send you to a guy who knows all about them, though. If this cats for real, I bet my friend can tell you everything you need to know.
            Youre a wonder, Dvorov. We should head straight over. It wont be long before nightfall.
            Oh yeah, man. Here, let me write down how to find him. The hunchback pulled out a scrap of paper and scribbled something on it with his fingernail, then handed it to Nepthys. Here you go, man. Good luck!
            Thanks, Dvorov. I owe you one. Lets go. That last one was to me. I waved goodbye to the hunchback as we left. He gave me a half-hearted wave that made me wonder what exactly we were chasing, and whether I should be wearing body armor. 
            Back on the street, I began to see things that I had never looked for until then. Still in my initial shock, I suddenly noticed qualities of the people that my mind hadnt registered when we parked. I saw people with skin stretched so tightly across their cheekbones that the corners had broken through  people whose cheekbones had horns growing from them, and people whose skin was gathered back like a ponytail. The yellow of this sky wasnt just smog: it had a leeching, heavy dimness. I saw men three feet tall with dusty black skin and eyes that shed yellow light. A corpulent, batrachian woman walked along with something on a leash that looked like a massive water beetle. Leaning from the rough-hewn window of one building on our right was something with long, green hair draped across the seven gangly arms hanging from its windowsill. Thirty-five thin fingers waved lazily like seaweed. I noticed when my back hit the wall that I was walking backwards.
            We, and thousands like us, have been living separately as long as there has been a human society, said my driver. I noticed that the wrinkles on his neck expanded as he breathed and realized that they were gills. We interact with humans, take advantage of them, grant them boons, sometimes even become their friends, but the majority of both societies have little or no interaction. At this point, we have removed ourselves so fully from quotidian human existence that we are understood to be fictional.
            The only place with any significant interaction between our worlds is on the fringes of yours. Love-ins, raves, gatherings where society is put on hold and humans open themselves to emotion: that is where entities from this world tend to go when they cross over, and that is where Rachel met someone from this world. Those of us who live permanently in this world tend to set up in places like this, where the human population is so overwhelming that they wont be noticed in the right corner, with the right protective spells.
            He took out the hunchbacks directions and glanced at an alley behind us. Okay, Nathan. We should get started right away. Theres no time to waste. 
            He saw that I wasnt moving. Setting an arm on my shoulder, he said, Nathan, what you see here might be frightening, but those things you saw are people just like you. Theyll be as surprised to see a human as you are to see men with seven arms.
            Thanks. Its very reassuring that Ill not only be an outsider but a curiosity.
            Nathan, you told me five minutes ago that you would do anything to help Rachel. Well, shes here and she needs your help. Now, the more we can do before nightfall, the better.
            But why are you even helping me? Until thirty seconds ago, I didnt believe in magic or any of that kind of weirdness. 
            Nathan, I told you: my family owes yours a debt. In this world, ones word is a promise. Now, can we get going?
            I caught my breath and forced myself to look him in the eye. Only if you stop beginning every sentence with my name.
            Youve got a deal. Lets go.
            As we headed down the sidewalk, I said, What is your name, anyway?
            Thats a question you learn not to ask here. What you may call me is Nepthys.
            Holding Dvorovs directions, Nepthys took us around the corner of the building into a skinny alleyway. I started wondering again how reliable my guides credentials were. Walking through an alley with rubbish piles that occasionally skittered from one wall to the other, he did not inspire confidence.
            Just at this corner, he said, interrupting my immanent panic attack, were going to stop and turn three times widdersh  er, counterclockwise, then face east. East is that way. He pointed at the wall to our right. Dont let the sun fool you. Then Im going to shed a little blood, but dont worry, none of yours. I blinked at him, but he just kept walking until we reached the corner. Okay, you might feel silly, but just turn three times to your left. Try to keep in time with me. We spun around three times, and then something flashed across Nepthys hand and he shook a spray of blood onto the dust. The blood flashed into flames as soon as it hit the ground, and I jumped back. When it had all burnt, a thin outline of a doorframe appeared on the wall across from our corner. Nepthys walked towards it and pressed his bloody palm against it, opening the door. Are you coming?
            We slipped through the door and came out, not inside the building, but on a busy street in a completely different part of town. The sky, cupping over squat buildings, was less yellow here, and stands were set up everywhere the way Id picture a market in the Middle East. Nepthys took us immediately to the right, where he led us to a cart filled with herbs. Spiced air hanging around the cart carried tarragon, rosemary, and scents I couldnt place. The thing tending the cart reminded me of the caterpillar from Alice in Wonderland: it had the same opium-dream wise man quality Id always given the caterpillar. Its arms were thin and long enough to reach any herbs from its cushion in the center of the cart, and with its long, many-shouldered pole of a torso, it rose over our heads even while seated. Its face was small and wrinkled, with penny-sized smoked glasses balanced on its thin nose. Would the gentlemen care to purchase some fine herbs? it asked. There are no finer to spice a meal, nor purer to mix a potion. Please, let yourselves breathe the fine scent of these herbs.
            Were not here to browse, Nepthys told him. Wed like to see a man about some garlic.
            The thing frowned. We have many fine cloves of garlic here on the cart, gentle sir. If  
            You know what I mean. Please, if we could see him, we would be much obliged. I imagine that people do not come here for unimportant reasons.
            It hissed thoughtfully. True, true. Step behind the cart and enter through the door there, using your left hand to open the door and your right   he looked at me   to close it.
            Thank you. Nepthys bowed slightly and we walked behind the cart.
            The latch opened under Nepthys left hand with a clack! The door took us to the bottom of a flight of wooden stairs. At the top was one door. We entered.
            The room held a bed, a bookcase, and a desk with one chair. Its only light came from a dying candle on the desk whose spark etched shadows in the roughly planked walls. On the bed was a small, ratty man. I smelled matted hair and cedar chips. He opened one eye when we came in but did not move.
            Were here for information about a vampire, said Nepthys.
            Oh, shit! I said.
            Sorry, kid. Would you do us the kindness of helping us to identify an individual?
            Wait, Nepthys  you said nothing about vampires. Frankly, I dont know if we can even doing anything against a vampire. Theres an entire industry in my world based around how unkillable they are. Are look, are they as bad as people in my world think they are?
            I dont know. Theyre almost as rare here, and Ive never heard a reliable story of someone successfully fighting a vampire.
            Only unsuccessfully, right?
            No, those people dont usually leave stories.
            Oh, thanks, Nepthys, for your confidence-inspiring tales of experience. So theyre probably worse than we think, okay, thats great. Now can you tell me what your master plan of attack will be before we go spinning counterclockwise into an Anne Rice novel?
            My plan is that you shut up while were trying to conduct business with someone who might be able to tell us what were actually going up against. Okay? Dont forget, shes your girlfriend. Now calm down while I talk to this gentleman. I can hear your heartbeat from over here.
            I shut up and tried to breathe. Nepthys turned back to the little man on the bed, who had not moved. Please, accept our apologies. As you can see, our situation is of personal importance to the young man. Now: may we ask you a few questions about an individual we believe to be a vampire? It would be a great help to us.
            The little man drew a few loud breaths that died in the wooden rooms tight air. Finally, in a pinched rasp, he said, My information is purely for the purposes of a collector. I do not want to provide help to someone who would do harm.
            Sir, we simply want to discover whether this individual is, in fact, a vampire. If there is any boon that you would have us do in return, we would be glad to do it.
            He continued to lie in place, still breathing heavily. I tried to keep myself calm. Then, with a sigh, he said, I have need of a certain stone that I once possessed. It would allow me to leave this bed, despite my current illness. My problem is that it was not made in this realm, but by a human, and only a human may handle it. The herb vendor will tell you where you can find it. If you would fetch me this stone, I would tell you what I can.
            Of course we will fetch you the stone, Nepthys assured him. You have our thanks.
            Outside, the thing at the herb cart nodded when we mentioned the stone. He told Nepthys the name of a woman who lived on a certain street, and we set off.
            When we reached the street, I expected some sort of temple, or a row of antiquaries, or at least a sleazy, black-market relics merchant. Instead, it looked like we were in the red-light district: women who probably wanted more than our money eyed us from the alleys. Nepthys didnt need to warn me not to speak to them. He took us to the door of a building like a short pagoda that had a sign hanging over it showing a face with hands uplifted, like a saint under G ds light, and handcuffed. 
            Inside, the entrance room was hung with bright silks and scattered with velvet cushions. Sails of obscene orange and a green that insulted springtime hung draped across reds that might have been sensual elsewhere but here were only offensive. A large woman, similarly decorated, quickly drifted up to us.
            Good evening, gentlemen, she said. May I invite you to have a cup of tea?
            No, thank you, said Nepthys, we regret that we cannot take up your kind offer. Are you the proprietor of this shop?
            Yes, answered the woman. I am Madame Entera, at your service. How can I help you gentlemen?
            We are here to see about a certain stone.
            She raised an eyebrow. Are you? Well, we dont get many customers asking about that item. Please, walk this way.
            She led us past the silks and through an arch decorated with pictures of wooden ships and what looked like African tribesmen. The next room had mosaics of what could have been Rome, with men in simple tunics working in a vineyard on one wall and men in odd, floppy hats on the other. After this, we went up a flight of stairs and past a row of doors barred on the outside.
            Excuse me, I said, ignoring Nepthys warning look, but may I ask what is kept in these rooms?
            The woman laughed. Why, the merchandise, of course, she said. 
            Nepthys leaned close to my ear. This is a slave shop, he explained quietly.
            The woman paused before another door, this one not barred but locked. As she brought out the key, she said, We deal mostly in fairly mundane trades, but there are a few customers with more unusual needs and people willing to sell unusual items. Weve had genies, indentured sorcerers, even golems and the occasional elf. This is one of the stranger items, though. Its been in our collection for several years because only a human can activate it. If we only had a human on our staff, we could have done so ages ago and sold it off, but we have no such luck. She opened the door and took us past several doors marked with odd geometrical designs to another locked room. Here it is, she said.
            With a flourish, she opened the door to reveal a room with walls inlaid with lapis and gold wire, intricate patterns like a Czars jewelry box crawling down the walls. In its center, under a spearing, white light, was a golden table draped with a blue velvet cloth, on which lay a gray, plum-sized rock.
            A marvel, isnt it? she said. That such a rock could hold so much magic  its a wonder.
            That it is, Nepthys assured her. What would convince you to part with it?
            She considered this, looking him over. You wouldnt give me the human, would you? No, she said, seeing his expression, that would make the stone rather useless. Nevertheless, she gave me what I can only describe as an appraising glance. I have never felt so appraised in all my life. He looks healthy, she said, how about a pint of his blood?
            A pint? Madame, I have his health to consider.
            Half a pint, then  and his hair.
            Nepthys turned to me. Well, kid, what do you think? Remember, this is your quest. Im not giving my blood.
            As if I wanted it, interrupted the woman. 
            I think its a fair deal, considering the return, he told me, but its up to you.
            I thought about it, then nodded.
            Marvelous! cried the woman. One half-pint of human blood, willingly given, and his fine head of hair for the stone. 
            She took us downstairs to a small room behind a red silk draping. There was a wooden chair, where she sat me down and asked me to wait. Soon, she came back with a lidded ceramic bowl, which she put on the table beside me. Roll up your sleeves, she told me. She opened the bowl and carefully, gingerly brought out a fat, dripping leech. It must have been larger than my finger. She laid it gently inside the hollow of my left arm. The cold thing stretched and cast around with its sucker-mouth until it found the soft spot inside my elbow, where it softly sucked on and began to work its way under my skin. I thought that I could feel a slight itching.
            They take about a quarter-pint each, said Madame Entera, drawing out another skinny leech. Theyre quick, too. Well be done with them before your hair is finished. Then she clapped her hands and brought in the barber.
            Half an hour later, I left the room pale and bald, running my fingers over my scalp. At least the barber hadnt nicked me. Madame Entera took me back up to the stones room, where Nepthys was waiting by the door. Be careful you dont let him touch it until youre ready to use it, the woman admonished Nepthys as she slipped the stone into a grey cloth pouch and handed it to him. Thank you for doing business at our house, and I hope to see you again!
            I left not a little unnerved, and still woozy from the leeches. Come on, said Nepthys, you could use a drink.
            We hit a bar on the next street over. Vodka, straight up, Nepthys told the bartender as we sat down at the counter, and a Bloody Mary for my friend. Make it extra bloody. When our drinks came, he poured a dollop of something from an inner pocket into my Bloody Mary. That should help, he said. You could run on empty with a little of that stuff. It wont refill your blood supply, but while thats in your system, you wont even need blood. He grinned at me. Drink up, kid.
            I took about half of the Bloody Mary in one gulp and then ate the celery. Nepthys slapped me on the back. Okay, I said, now that were sitting down, can you explain a little more of whats going on here? I mean, what is this place, really?
            He thought about that. I think that our world is a reflection of yours, or yours is a more boring reflection of ours. This place is just a little of both. In America, things are still weird after the European conquest. The natives are still here, but so is everyone else. The Europeans mostly manifest as something like the underground society of your cities. We arent quite what youd expect from reading the Grimms.
            What do you mean?
            Okay, take elves. He caught the bartenders eye for another shot. You figure theyre some Lincoln-green pretty boys who run around in the forest with bows and live forever in halls of glory, right? Not in America. Here, theyre the snotty rich who show up in clubs because they like the gritty ambience  you have them in your world, too, right? Except its worse here because they have centuries to grow disaffected and flirt with exciting and dangerous elements of societys lowest rungs. Some of them actually commit to this society, though. Theres an amazing DJ whos an elf. He has a real ear for it. When they do decide to do something for real, theyre always the best at it. He downed the second shot. I am glad to be out of the favor-trading scene for half a minute. Its exhausting to talk to those people. One wrong word and you find yourself cursed with infinite earwax or something. So what else do you want to know, Nathan?
            I dont know hey, what about the nature spirits, things like that? I mean, where do the dryads fit in a place like this?
            If the tree isnt around, the dryad isnt around. Its as simple as that.
            That made me a little sad. They were always my favorite part of the Greek myths I read in elementary school. Well, what about you? How did you get to America?
            My parents came over from Russia, just like your family. My real name is a little more ethnically appropriate, but we dont toss those around in this place. They were spirits of a certain branch of the Volga and the village based around a mill on that tributary. When the Russian government dammed the river, my parents decided that instead of dying with the river, they would stick with the people of the village theyd protected. I was born here, and I was lucky enough not to get attached to any particular river. Sure, I miss having a place to settle down, but its better than waiting to get dammed. He took another shot of vodka.
            Shouldnt you be going light on the vodka? I mean, we might have a lot of work ahead of us.
            Are you kidding? I can drink like a fish, kid. We should get going, though. Still woozy? I nodded. A little walking should get the stuff into your system. Come on, lets go.
            As we left the bar, I asked to see the rock. Why? Nepthys asked.
            Im just curious. I want to see what a magic stone looks like. Dont worry, Ill be careful not to touch it.
            He thought about it, then handed me the pouch. I undid the strings and let the pouch sit on my palm so that I could see the stone inside. It looked like a normal river stone, a gray oval with a white stripe through it. As long as I looked at it, it didnt reveal any magic sparkle or glow. 
            Suddenly, what looked like a little kid darted out of an alley and almost ran into me. I almost tripped over him, and the stone went flying out of the pouch. Nepthys tried to grab it, but, by reflex, I caught it first. 
            Immediately, I felt it grow warm and knew that I had done something very stupid. Nathan, said Nepthys, I think that you just did something very stupid.
            I agree, I told him. The stone was as warm as human flesh now, and there was a sort of glow that might have been light or just the stones soft heat, I dont know. Then there was light, a kind of rosy glow, and I felt the stone slip out of my hand to float in the air. The air around me seemed to still sound, and light came in around the corners of my eyes. Do you know what this thing does? I shouted, hardly able to hear myself.
            Nepthys was saying something that looked like, I have no idea! but I couldnt hear him. The light in the corners of my eyes rushed in, converging on the rosy glow around the stone, and for a moment I was blind. Then I opened my eyes again and saw a girl lying in the street. There was no sign of the stone.
            I think I understand why we got that stone from a slave shop, said Nepthys. The girl was as soft and rosy as the stones glow, and she was dressed in a white shift tied at the waist with a belt like a Celtic knot. Her arms and legs were wrapped in white linen up to her wrists and ankles, and soft, white leather boots held her feet.
            When she didnt move, I knelt down and put a hand to her brow. As soon as I touched her, her eyes opened into mine and she grabbed my wrist. I couldnt move.
            Name me, she said.
            I opened my mouth to ask for an explanation, but Nepthys stopped me. Dont name her What did you say?, okay? The next thing that comes out of your mouth is probably what shell respond to until we figure out how to put her back.
            I was at a loss. Id never named anyone before. I thought back to one time when Id been thinking about raising a family and remembered that Id always liked the name  
            Amy.
            Nepthys looked at me incredulously. You awaken a magical being of unknown power from an enchanted stone, having purchased her with your own blood from a slave dealer, and you name her Amy? Amy smiled at me and let go of my arm, but not before she brought my fingers to her lips and gave them one soft kiss.
            I stood up and Amy stood with me. So back to our garlicky friend?
            I suppose so, said Nepthys, and youd better pray to whatever god you think will listen that he wont care we woke her up.
            We walked back to the herb stand. The vendor stared a little at Amy, his arms pausing in midair as he lit the stands little lamp, but we walked right around him and up the wooden stairs.
            When Nepthys opened the little mans door, he rolled over and grinned to see us, but when Amy walked in, he blanched. What! he screamed. You idiots! You woke it up? Get out of my sight this instant!
            But but sir, I said, are you sure shes no help to you?
            Not if you named it already, you ninny, and Im sure that you have! Fools! Get out of my sight now  unless you know how to put it back? I thought as much. Now leave, before I call the rats on you.
            We left. Nepthys shook his hands at me like he wanted to wrap them around my neck. You idiot, he hissed, do you know how much youve set us back? I should say, set yourself back, since its your girlfriend were looking for. I thought about Rachel; in the excitement, I had forgotten why we were chasing down vampire experts. Youre just lucky that Dvorov isnt my only contact. Come on, were heading out. He held the door for me and Amy when we reached the bottom of the stairs. Walking outside, I was shocked to see that it was already dark. Night comes quickly here, said Nepthys quietly as he came out behind me. Didnt I warn you?
            Okay, he said as we hit the street, were going to see another friend of mine. First, though, we are getting you a hat. You look ridiculous with a shaved head. At a nearby stand, he grabbed the first hat that would cover my head and might pass back in real Boston. It was a black baseball cap that read Dead Can Dance in gold across the front. Amy liked it, I think. She still hadnt spoken since I named her, so I wasnt sure.
            He took us to a squat, long building whose roof bulged up like the ribs of a gutted animal. The black door opened as we came up to it, and a pale man opened the door. He was naked, but there was nothing to hide: his body was hairless and completely smooth. I only say he because he didnt have a hint of femininity. His eyes were white. From behind him, I could hear something that sounded like a remix of the Cures A Forest.
            Im here to see Isis. Tell her that Nepthys is here to see her.
            The man closed his eyes. A moment later, he opened them again and stepped aside to let us in. Nepthys walked straight past him and I tried to keep up, taking Amys small hand so that she wouldnt lag behind. I shivered as I walked past the pale mans blank eyes, wondering what they were staring at. Amy gave my hand a squeeze.
            Nepthys lead us down a hallway that matched the buildings faade, a vaulted, ribbed intestine of a hallway, whose black walls looked unsettlingly organic. I thought that I saw one rib shift in its setting, like a cat trying to scratch its back against a wall, but when I turned, it was still.
            Then there was a door, which opened as we approached. Inside, the space opened into a wide, square chamber mirrored and so dark that it could have been any size. In the center was a dais covered with white furs and a young woman, surrounded by more pale men. These were incontestably male.
            Nepthys! said the woman, slithering up across the furs to sit up. As she rose, her robes fell open and I realized that, except for what looked like a red silk kimono, she was naked  naked and stunning. I had an urge to cover Amys eyes. Its been years since Ive seen you. Please, come and sit beside me, and introduce your friends.
            This man is here in search of his lover, who was stolen from him in the human world, said Nepthys, ushering us toward the woman in silk. The girl is surprising, he concluded.
            And I am Isis, said the woman, offering her hand to me. I took it and, dropping to one knee, gave her fingers a small kiss. It seemed appropriate. It is an honor to meet you, Lady Isis, I said.
            She laughed, liquid, alluring, alarming. Oh, precious! He has lovely manners, Nepthys, despite his poor taste in hats. You may leave out the Lady, boy. I dont wish to be reminded of how old I actually am. A wave to the pale men brought a bottle of red wine and a platter of grapes. Now, how can I help the elegantly mannered friend of my Nepthys and his surprising young charge? I hope I can start by offering some wine.
            Nepthys poured out wine for three of us. May I have a little more of what you gave me before, Nepthys? I asked. I still feel a little woozy. He poured a dollop of the clear liquid into one cup and passed it to me. The wines rich scent had a touch of something chemical that I recognized from the bar, but it filled my mouth and sank into my veins with reassuring warmth.
            Isis nostrils twitched slightly. Youve lost blood, boy? This story might be interesting. Does it have anything to do with why your head is shaved?
            It was part of the price for this girl, who was a rock at the time, explained Nepthys. 
            I have a feeling that she was worth the trade, I added. Amy, still holding my hand, smiled.
            She may be at that, said Isis, gazing at her. That sweet, small nose, and her soft lips  shed kiss well, I should think, if gently. She has good blood under her cheeks. Good, round breasts, too, even though theyre small, they suit her. Amy didnt blush, and I hoped that she didnt understand what Isis was saying.
            She would have been worth it, Nepthys interrupted, if this fool hadnt accidentally woken her up before we could give her to our contact. He was going to give us valuable information for her.
            Now I understand why youre here, said Isis. So what do you need to know?
            You know I wouldnt come to you if I could get this information another way, said Nepthys apologetically.
            Mmm, she replied. I couldnt tell what the thoughtful look on her face meant.
            I think that the person who stole the girl were looking for might be a vampire. Isis you know some way to locate the undead, dont you?
            I do. Describe this one to me. If I know him, I can find him. If not, youll have to bring me something to work with.
            Nepthys looked at me. I thought back to seeing the man in the hollow church and described his skin, his dark hair, the way that light seemed to flow around him, as best as I could. Isis set her elbows in the fur and rested her head on her hands while I spoke and tried not to stare at her full, hanging breasts. When I had told her all that I could remember, she blinked her black lashes and said, I remember him.
            You do? Nepthys could hardly believe her. Thats amazing!
            It is. I would have sworn to you that he was dead. He should be. I hope that you can do a better job than the last lot. She sat up, running her hands along her pale, round thighs. All right, then. Let me see if I can find him.
            Isis closed her eyes and lifted her hands. A dark glow coalesced around her palms. Amy leaned forward, looking amazed. The glow reflected on her pink face, casting a sickly pallor over her heartbeat-strong cheeks. Tiny drops of blood began to seep out of Isis palms as her brow creased. Her candy lips twisted into a frown. The dark glow grew stronger and larger, filling the air for about a foot around her hands. In her palms, the droplets of blood swelled into small pools. 
            The dark glow began to flicker, and Isis frown of concentration became one of worry. The pools in her hands grew deeper. She didnt shed a bead of sweat, and I didnt even see her draw a breath, but the glow around her hands shuddered like a stubborn candleflame. Then her fingers tensed and her arms began to shake. The blood in her palms, still filling up, began to ripple. Shivers swept through her body, and Nepthys reached out to touch her but I stopped him. He glanced at me with honest concern, probably the first honest moment hed shown me: Is she all right? I didnt know.
            Her hands twitched and a drop of blood shook out, splashing on the crease of her thigh and hanging to one strand of the black hair between her legs. She gasped and the dark glow went out, taking the blood with it in a flash of heat and red steam. Isis collapsed on the fur, strings cut. 
            Now Nepthys lunged forward, took her by the arms. Isis, what happened? Are you hurt?
            She shook her head, rubbing her face into the white fur and murmuring something. What did you say? asked Nepthys.
            She rolled onto her back, her arms crossed tightly over her chest. For the first time, she looked vulnerable. When she finally spoke, I had to lean close to hear her. I found your vampire, she said, but he might know that someones looking for him. Hes taken great pains to keep himself hidden. You should look for him at Dvorovs as quickly as you can. She turned to me with tired sympathy. I didnt see a girl with him. Hurry, though, and you might find him before he leaves. A twitch of her fingers summoned her pale servants. One of these will lead you out.
            I stood, and one of her servants took me and Amy to the door. I looked back to see Nepthys whispering something to her. He stood to go, but she caught his sleeve and pulled him back for a moment. I turned back to the door. Come on, Amy, I said, hell be along soon.
            Nepthys caught up with us after a minute and walked silently to the end of the hall. When we got there, another pale servant was waiting for us with a box of dark stained wood. He offered it to Nepthys, who opened the box: on velvet lining, a wooden hammer and two stakes. 
            Mountain ash, said Nepthys. That was very kind of her. Closing the box, he paused beside the open door and looked back at me. I really hope we find your Rachel, he said. It looked like he was going to continue, but then he walked out the door.
            I know a quick way to Dvorovs, said Nepthys. I bet hes kicking himself now for not having a way to contact me. In a few minutes, we were back to the first door wed knocked on in this town and Dvorov himself was greeting us. The pulse from inside made the building sound like a giant heart.
            Yo, my man Nep! You got the sucker already?
            No, but we got a tip that he might be in your club. Have you seen him?
            Here, man? Youre crazy. I havent had a vampire here since you and   Nepthys shot a wicked look at him. Anyway, long time, man.
            Thats odd. Do you mind if we check it out anyway? I have a real feeling that hes in here somewhere.
            Dvorov glanced over his shoulder, a little nervous. I guess, man, but be quick. I dont want my customers thinkin that anythings wrong, you know?
            Of course. Well be in and out in a minute. Nepthys stepped in and Dvorov walked us towards the dance floor.
            So did you get anything out of the guy I sent you to? Dvorov asked us.
            No, he said that his research was purely academic, not for hunters.
            Bummer. I guess I probably shouldve known, though. I mean, he is kinda tight about that stuff. He didnt look very surprised. Anyway, this is the dance floor, man. Good luck.
            Something with too many arms was manning the turntables above the crowd, which looked more impenetrable tonight than ever before. Then I saw the bar on the other side of the crowd and knew where to start looking.
            I tried to slip along the edge of the crowd. Things with scales and claws kept flailing against me, pressing me into the wall, but I took a breath and kept moving. My nose filled with a reek of thick sweat. The music began to build, and a strobe came on. Somewhere toward the center of the dance floor, I heard a howl that sent bitter winds under my clothing  for a second, I was back with my family in Russia, hiding from the cold. Then I felt a tug on the back of my shirt and noticed that Amy was following me. I gathered her under my arm. Dvorov was somewhere behind me, too, negotiating delicately through his patrons. 
            Just in front of me, a massive thing slammed into the wall, sending up a cloud of granite dust. It slumped to the floor and I realized that it was a werewolf. Its haunches twitched in time to the music. As it started to rise, a man with thick, scaled skin stretched across rippling muscles leapt on him. I thought that my odds were better on the dance floor.
            Holding Amy in my arms as we ducked between the crush of dancers, I started to wonder if the chances of finding this vampire were even good enough to merit this. I wasnt sure that I could survive the crush of the crowd. A cold thing with countless, writhing tentacles fell against me, thrashing as if in the throes of a drug overdose, tripping me and clutching at my limbs. A woman who could have been an elf twitched and jerked beside me, fingers trembling at the torn edges of her clothing. Then a looming shape to my right fell away, and I saw him in a flash of the strobe, his black eyes staring deadly into the crowd. The creature blocking my vision moved back, but I had seen all that I needed to see. 
            A bleeding, eyeless thing shuddered and beat its arms against me, but I ducked around it and toward the bar. I slipped past the waving monstrosity that had blocked my view before, a mountain of wet, veined flesh, and had almost passed through the crowd when a clawed hand grabbed my arm. 
            It was Dvorov. He pulled my ear down to his mouth. You seen enough, man? he shouted.
            Yes, I called back, I saw him! Hes sitting right there at the bar!
            Dvorov tried to peek through the crowd, but it had shifted again and we couldnt see a thing. I dont think hes there, Dvorov shouted to me. It must have been wishful thinking.
            No, I saw him! I have to hurry, too! Who knows how long hell stick around?
            Listen, man, hes not there! Im telling you, its not even worth checking the bar! I turned to keep going, but he caught my arm again. Dont do this, kid! Its a dumb idea. Even if you did find this vampire cat, hed tear you apart! If he got your girl, shes probably dead! I shook him off and squeezed between two dancing nymphs, getting almost to the edge of the dance floor.
            Suddenly, Amy screamed. I whirled around and threw up my arm just in time to knock Dvorov away. His eyes were glowing red, and he had bared a set of fangs that could probably take my hand off. The dancers near us tried to clear some space. He shot back up, hardly touching the ground, and I kicked him back. He jumped at my arm while I was still off-balance, and I felt the surge of adrenaline that comes right when your body realizes that its too late to save itself.
            A heavy thing hit my arm with a thump and knocked me back against someone with rough paws who held me up. On the floor was Dvorovs head, separated from his body by several feet and a growing puddle of dark blood. Nepthys stood over him with a blue sword in his hand. It flashed in the strobe where it wasnt streaked with Dvorovs blood.
            He wasnt the only one with a secret or two, he said by way of explanation. You spotted our boy, didnt you? I bet his hide-out is nearby, too. Lets hurry. He wiped off the sword and sheathed it in a scabbard now belted to his hip. The crowd parted for us.
            The vampire glanced up when he saw the crowd split and his eyes flashed when he noticed us. In a blink of the strobe light, he was on his feet and dashing from the room. Come on! shouted Nepthys.
            We chased after him, Amy keeping up valiantly behind us. He bashed up a set of stairs set into the side of the wall, and we chased up after him, heading up a huge staircase that seemed to go up for more stories than the building could have held. Luckily, the vampire turned off after three stories. He ran down a hallway and slipped behind one of the doors, but Nepthys was close behind him and left it open for me. I called out to Amy to shut the door in case the vampire had any friends who might be trying to follow us. Inside was a dark room that looked like a storage space for DJ equipment. Nepthys urged me on from the back of the room, then made a turn out of sight. 
            When I came to the door at the end of the room, it looked like it had been torn off its hinges. I didnt imagine that Nepthys had done it, and it wasnt without alarm that I ran after him. 
            A black hallway opened into a space like a cathedral. The vault rose into obscurity above me, and a massive rose window stood ahead of me. The panes looked dyed black, and only a few cold beams slipped through the filter. Footsteps echoed through the stone chamber, and the sound reflected back to me from everywhere. I couldnt tell how many people were running, much less where they were. On the steps in front of the altar, I saw pale forms and realized that they were Rachel and two other women. Then I heard Nepthys shout, Nathan! Behind you! I whirled and dropped in time to see the vampire shoot over my head, leaping like a panther. He smashed into the pews behind me and I heard him leap across the rest of the row. There was Nepthys, on the other side of the pews, holding the wooden box in his hand. He tossed it to me, and I just barely had it open before I saw the vampire again, turning to face me.
            I pulled out the hammer and one of the stakes. He leapt over the pews, soaring like a grasshopper, and drew a gleaming knife in midair. I dodged, but he tossed it, and I held the box in front of my face. The blade lodged in the wood, its silver point penetrating the velvet and nearly reaching my skin. My arms shook from the force of his throw. Then he landed heavy beside me and I scrambled to stand. His first move pulled out the dagger, almost wrenching my arms from their sockets as I held on to the box, and the second shattered the box with a crushing punch that sent me reeling backwards. I dropped the splinters and the broken second stake and raised my hammer, ready to drive the ash spike into his heart. Behind him, I saw Nepthys running between the pews. I braced my legs against the stone floor and he was on me. I raised the stake; he drew back the dagger for a slash that could doubtless open my neck from throat to spine. The stake went down, there was a blur, and then my hands were empty and I felt pain under my jaw.
            Two points of fire opened in my throat for an instant, then all went numb. Taste, hearing and touch became a single blur, and I do not know if my eyes were open. My mind began to dissipate, but then I felt the pain withdraw and a lifeless voice said, This ones blood isnt worth drinking. Hands closed on my neck and I felt my spine crack.
            I must have fallen to the floor then. I could perceive Nepthys sword flashing over me, and I heard steel crack, then bone. I thought I heard Rachels voice blearily calling for me. Then one set of footsteps began walking toward the altar.
            I was content to let myself drift away, and I had almost forgotten the body lying with broken neck on the cathedrals hard tiles when I felt a warm touch on its cheek. A girls voice, soft and almost recognizable, spoke, Nathan. I felt my head turn and something in my neck reconnected. Then my eyes opened and Amy handed me the hammer and stake.
            I stood and turned toward the altar. The vampire was walking just steps ahead of me. I stepped up behind him and raised my hands, which almost seemed to be glowing. Then the stake came down into his back and one, two, three strikes with the hammer drove it in. The vampire fell forward and blood began to flow from his mouth.
            Behind me, Amy was kneeling beside Nepthys, whose arm and rib cage were knitting back together like a wooden toy that falls apart when its string is released but draws itself together at a slight tug. I pulled the vial of liquid that hed been giving me from his pocket and ran to the altar.
            Rachel, her clothes torn and her face drawn, looked like she might cry when she saw me. I pulled her into my arms and she tried to put hers around me. My fuckin hero, she whispered. 
            
         
         
      
   

   
      
         
            
            
            The Black Willow
            
            Allan sat down at his desk and pulled the chair in close. Opening a side drawer, he took out a piece of paper and his inkpot. After filling his pen, Allan looked at his paper in the orange glow from the lantern set back in the desk's right-hand corner. His pen cast a forbidding line of shadow slanting across the page, echoing the inky darkness crouching in the edges of the lantern's struggling glow. The only other illumination came from a lurid moonlight filtered through thin branches and clouds, casting its bone-pale glow onto the pine floorboards.
            Allan unfolded another page, this one crowded with ranks of letters in tight formation from left to right. The lines of letters stepped into their divisions, in the shape of a story's outline: the loose, dry skeleton of a tale lay exposed beneath their feet, awaiting tendons, muscle and blushing skin. Allan reviewed the troops, all prepared to disembark, their task to form the tale of a young man returning home from Life Abroad to find his childhood friend a bride to-be, thus upsetting the apple cart of his life's plan, clarified  of course  by his very time away from her he loved best.
            Although the concept was a simple one, Allan thought it had potential. Besides, the public liked a good, simple romance. Perhaps this will be more saleable, he thought and began to write.
            
            They gazed at each other, lost in the rapture of love based so deeply within their hearts that they had never seen it before. "What about Roger?" she asked, knowing that the answer no longer mattered.
            
            This is good, he thought, pausing to raise the low light of the lantern. I'm almost done, and the happy ending is just falling into place. I hardly dare to think it, but  I may finish this story!
            As he thought this, a sinuous wind encircled the house, slipping through the walls to chill him. The papers and the lantern's flame trembled as the thin fingers of a great black willow rapped gently on Allan's window and wall like a stranger knocking on his chamber door. This was no stranger, however; the twisted, ancient thing was older than Allan, its branches rapping on his window since his childhood. Its thin, drawn fingers framed the bloated moon, whose eerie radiation now bathed the room directly. The great, jaundiced eye stared down unblinkingly at the author, who gazed up through his window's tiny frame with trepidation. Allan recalled himself and focused once more on the incomplete page before him. His pen flickered forth, words dancing out from its nib. In the author's eye gleamed the lantern's reflection  or was it a reflection? For while the lantern's spark shivered in the chill breeze, this burn was steady and true as the motion of its owner's pen, scratching out the rhythm of the willow's fingers.
            
            The frenzied writing ceased at last, the author leaned back with a slight sigh as if both exhausted and satisfied by his effort. He held a hand to his forehead, eyes closed and face flushed. I did it again, he thought. After all that  so near the end, to lose control again. His breath returning to its normal rhythms, he dared to look at the page before him. 
            His face soft as if caught between a smile and tears, he draped his loose cape over her shoulders. "Come, darling," he whispered. "Where I am to take you, one need never think of those left behind." 
            They stepped together into his carriage, her eyes wide with wonder as she touched it and felt, conveyed as if through her skin, the unearthly nature of the rails and reins, the wheelspokes. They took their seats within the car and his driver set the horses trotting. For a few yards, they kicked up dust along the roadway; then they raised their hooves and took to the air. She gaped, afraid but knowing that no harm would come to her by his hand. The New England woods disappeared, even the greatest pines shrinking to insignificance as they mounted the sky. Above them, the Milky Way drew near as if the stars themselves could be reached. A magnificent glow infused the carriage as they merged with the sky's glory.
            
            Allan crushed the page in his hand and hurled it at the window. "Damn you," he cried, "will you never leave me be? Shall I never finish a story in peace?" He pounded his desk in vain, cursing the foul muse that drove him.
            
            The next day, Allan sat on a florally patterned chair in a well-furnished parlor. Taking a measured sip of white wine from his crystal glass, he glanced at his host  a cultured man dressed in a light suit of the current fashion and wearing his pale hair with a heavy set of sideburns  who passed him a silver tray. 
            "Cucumber sandwich?"
            Allan took a sandwich between his fingers. "Thank you, Arthur."
            Arthur replaced the tray onto the lacquered cherry table that stood in the center of his ordered chamber. In a manner delicately balanced between somber and genial, he refilled their glasses. "How is the writing these days, my dear Mr. Clemm?"
            "Perfectly dreadful, my dear Mr. Mason," Allan sighed. "I had a perfect story in my pages; my hero returned home and reclaimed his love, I nearly had it tied together before"
            "Before?"
            "Before that blasted impulse came over me and I started writing like Edgar Poe  though the most recent was not so morbid as my many others, thank Heaven."
            Arthur's face assumed a long-suffering aspect of authoritative exasperation. "I'm not familiar with Mr. Poe's works, but I assume you're referring to your unhealthy penchant for the fantastic."
            "It's far from a 'penchant,' Arthur. This is more like a compulsion, a beast that lies waiting in the dark for the perfect moment, then leaps and takes ahold of me, screaming out through my quill."
            "How perfectly awful." Arthur grimaced at the vivid description. "I'm sure you know that you must curb this behavior if you wish to produce any writing fit for public consumption."
            "I know," Allan replied, "but how am I to do that? You know I do not wish to make my stories thus; but it is my nemesis, confronting me anew at every turn!"
            Arthur raised a critical brow. "Perhaps you could make some headway if you denied your darker side the outlet of the colorful metaphors you so enjoy. Every action you take to deny it nourishment will bring you closer to your goal; and believe me, Allan, you must take every opportunity to quash this uncivilized obsession if you intend to publish. There simply is no audience for fairy tales  no literate audience, at least."
            "It is true," Allan admitted, fidgeting with his cufflinks, "that I would not dream of submitting one of these corruptions of literature to any publisher. I've even tried rewriting the corrupted sections, but once my characters have gone down that road, nothing can recall their former life. My prodigal ink-blooded children simply lose their vitality when forced along the proper road."
            Arthur sighed and sipped his wine. "If only you would restrain this morbid impulse of yours, you might write something really worth reading. It's hard enough listening to your wild speech without seeing it appear in the refined world of print, like a surly foreigner among a genteel crowd."
            Allan hung his head, holding his wine with both hands between his arched knees. His hair was slightly unkempt after his sleepless night, and his clothing had a rumpled look as if, by mere proximity, it had taken on the aspect of his weariness. He scratched the back of his dark-haloed head and blinked bleary eyes. "I would drive it out," he said softly, "but I fear for what would remain."
            "Perhaps you require a rest from writing," suggested Arthur. "You might find that some time in an honest occupation would ground you somewhat, improve your disposition."
            "Perhaps it would," Allan replied, rising and vainly straightening his suit. "I shall consider it; in the meantime, however, I must be off. You have been a gracious host, as always."
            Arthur rose and shook his hand. "So dear a friend is always welcome to my counsel and my home," he said. "I hope soon to see you in better sorts."
            They parted and Allan made his way pensively from Arthur's gate. He walked the wheel-ruts, hands in his pockets and unshined shoes collecting dust. Some quarter-mile from Arthur's gate, he halted, confronted by a halloo. "Nathan?" he called out to the empty road.
            The reply came from above him and Allan turned to see his friend reclining in the fork of a great tree. "I had a hunch you'd be at Arthur's today," said Nathan, "so I thought I'd wait here for you." Nathan's lanky frame, dressed in a loose, tan jacket, fit into the branch like an elegant skeleton. His hair fell loosely across a face that seemed always to have a knowing smirk hidden just beneath its surface, infusing his body with a rakish energy. "So, Allan," said Nathan, unfolding and lowering his legs to the roadside, "how goes life for the quintessential American author?" 
            "I wouldn't know," replied Allan dryly, before continuing in another tone entirely. "I destroyed another story last night, Nathan."
            Leaning against his tree, Nathan shook his head. "You mean, finished another story."
            "Yes, it is finished! Ended! Never again shall it see the rosy-fingered dawn! Nathan, you've read these abominations of mine. You know just as well as I that they have no future, no potential. At best, they are faery tales; at worst, expeditions into macabre realms no healthy mind need ever see."
            "So instead, you would write  what?"
            "Something saleable; something worth reading, worth writing! I want to write as others do: a tale, set in our real world, of characters who might live therein, not citizens of some airy demesne beyond the stars!"
            "Why is that more desirable than what you write today?"
            "People will read such stories; they are worth publishing."
            "If you never finish such stories, how can they be worth publishing?"
            "That is precisely why I must excise this malignant instinct!"
            "Why do you write?"
            "Why  to earn a living, I suppose. Why do you ask?"
            "You choose to write rather than become a fisherman or a carpenter, though you face such difficulty. Why is that?"
            "I suppose it is because I enjoy my craft. I would not be happy, thus separated from it."
            "So at its heart, then, your writing  as opposed to working otherwise  is for yourself?"
            "Yes, I suppose one could see it thus. But really, Nathan, your queer habits of conversation have reached a new level."
            Ignoring the statement, Nathan continued. "Your writing is for you, Allan, not for the publishers or some imagined audience. Since you seem unable to write 'normally,' why not embrace your tales as they are, leave behind the one unhappiness in the art you admit is a source of pleasure? Your stories strike a chord with the deepest, most ancient stories of mankind, the tales basic to humanity. Tell them, and they will create an audience. You need not pander to what you imagine their wants are; speak, and they shall listen."
            
            Allan crouched over his desk once more, pen in hand and mind blank. He contemplated a story, an outline he had laboriously constructed some time ago. He had filled his pen and raised it, the nib descending towards the paper, before the sound came: the gentle, persistent tapping of the gnarled, primeval willow touching the window with long, insistent fingers. 
            His eyes awoke with a passionate, determined flame, though the only light came from the glutted moon. Allan filled page after page, the words escaping from his mind onto the paper. Where before they had marched in regiments, practiced in ranks and followed their leaders' commands, the words now escaped in their true forms, unhindered by any stricture. He continued long into the night, until the eldritch orb had sunk into the waiting hands of the willow, raised perpetually skyward. 
            
            Arthur looked up from the results of a nights frenzied labors and looked Allan in the eye.
            "What is this?" he queried, indicating the pages he held in his left hand.
            "I decided that since I wasn't having much success with more  traditional  stories, I might see what sort of work I produced if I let my imagination go freely," Allan replied, somewhat less self-assured than he had been the previous night. 
            "What in G-d's name could have possessed you to do such a thing," cried Arthur, nearly raising his voice. "After all I said the day before, why have you abandoned centuries of literary progress for some self-indulgent fantasy?" He shook the papers at Allan, raising them like a belt above the head of a disobedient son. "This is nothing but a glorified Grimm's tale, a miscarried child of Stoker, a creation less fit to be published than to be told around an open fire at the hovel of some peasant!" He spoke the last word with such heavy intonation that Allan shrank back before the physical wave of sound emanating from Arthur's throat. "Do you hate the modern system of literature? Do you personally despise the works the Enlightenment or the progress made since Shakespeare??"
            For a moment, Allan could hardly do more than shake his head. "No, of course not I "
            "Then why," Arthur barreled on, "do you disregard them all and return to this superstitious babble, this morbid, paganistic drivel? Why do you disregard my warnings, my careful advice given in the best of friendship and designed only to save you from sinking into this very type of corruption, this literary debauchery?" He glared at Allan, eyes impaling him and demanding a response.
            "Could you write decent tales with that willow at your window?" Allan cried out at last, stepping forward and casting his arms open, confronting Arthur with this demanding, pleading interrogation. "Its twigs rap constantly against the wall, the wind always demanding my attention. How could any writer accommodate the edicts of popular literature with the very forces of nature knocking upon his door?"
            Arthur looked down his nose at the distraught author, viewing his complaint with pure disdain scantily concealed by the veneer of politeness that animated the construct that was Arthur Mason. "A tree? A tree forced you to write this, my dear Mr. Clemm? I must admit, this seems far-fetched, even by your standards  even your Nathan might have difficulty believing you."
            "You don't know what this is like," said Allan, shaking his head. "Nathan would understand completely." Even as he said it, Allan prayed that his statement was true. 
            "Very well," said Arthur; "then take your story to that hedonist and let him defend you when no civilized publisher will approach you. If you insist on abandoning me, I shall not hold you." With that, he tossed the papers at Allan and left the room.
            Stunned, Allan slowly gathered up the pages and placed them in order. He then turned and left through the door opposite that Arthur had taken, making his way past his host's doorman without assistance and setting off on foot towards Nathan's residence, several miles away.
            
            Nathan read the package of words in silence, his only motions the steady progress of his eyes and occasional replacement of pages. Allan sat nervously across from him in a chair Nathan had probably upholstered himself, a patchwork design of fabric containing easily more stuffing than any other furniture item of the period. At long last, Nathan reached the end and set down his reading on the table between them. Allan leaned forward unconsciously.
            "It's the best story you've ever written."
            Allan exhaled and leaned back into the chair, his face relaxing in imitation of his thoughts. "So," he asked, "you don't think it's a waste of ink and paper, a futile expedition into morbidity or literary debauchery?"
            "Heavens, no," said Nathan, aghast. "This is one of the strongest works I've read in ages. It speaks to the deepest storyteller's instinct within us all, yet is entirely original. My dear friend, you have done it. Oh, they may rail against you at first; they may decry you as a heathen or a literary savage; but while those in power say such things, others will read your tales and see their true worth. Believe me when I say that you will be read a century from now."
            Allan, though dubious as to that possibility, felt some temptation from the compliment; mainly, it granted him the encouragement he still needed. Nathan promised to show the story to a printer he knew and Allan left it with him, then walked home under the spreading maples with a smile lingering on his face. He felt now that perhaps Nathan was right; although the man was somewhat peculiar, he had both an unimpeachable honesty and a certain propensity for insight. Certainly, it was undeniable that the stories had an originality to them. His mind's strangest fruit had ripened at last, and he found the taste less bitter than expected. These thoughts and others like them filled his head as he walked the long road home.
            It was evening, and the sky burned orange in the west when he neared home at last. Passionate, fiery colors filled the western sky before him, though the sun itself had reached the trees and a few dark clouds circled overhead. As Allan drew closer, he distinguished a new cloud, a pillar rising directly ahead; a road of smoke ascended in the west, its source hidden by the very hillock that concealed his house from the traveler until one had nearly reached its door.
            Allan's thoughts fled as one, scattering on the breeze that scattered the warning plume. He ran the last distance, crested the hill puffing to reveal Arthur below, walking to the carriage parked before Allan's house as two laborers wrapped a great saw in oilcloths and loaded it onto the vehicle's roof. Arthur paused in the door, looking up at Allan for a moment; then he turned and shut the door behind him. The driver snapped the reins and set the horses on. As they trotted forth, Allan's eyes remained trapped by the carriage, following it up the hillock and past himself. The heavy curtains had been drawn across its windows. He watched as the carriage drew still more distant, the horses' hooves still kicking up dust along the roadway.
            When they had gone, he remained, stunned, until the scent of woodsmoke recalled him to himself. He turned to regard the pillar still rising behind his house and ran to see what had been done.
            Rounding the corner, he saw a great bonfire. A mass of flaming wood stood before him, heat singeing him and sparks flying too close to his house. It was a moment before he realized what else had changed: near the wall, beneath his window, was a stump with black and ancient bark.
            In a thoughtless panic, Allan flew to the stream that ran by his house and began frantically throwing handfuls of water onto the pyre. His thoughts were not of the act's futility, nor even of the nights spent tormented by the twisted thing; instead, all that filled his mind was the tree's constant presence in his life, growing with him and beside him, its persistent reminders that he had higher, truer things to write, the simple beauty of the great black tree for its own sake. His handfuls could do nothing to quench the hewn, burning logs, but when the night sky grew dark above him and the fire dwindled to black ashes, tears threatened to spill forth and extinguish the final embers.
            But he did not weep. Instead, he bethought himself of the loss of the tree; considered also Arthur's motivation and whether some good might not come of this, after all. Leaving the circle of ashes, he stood and turned towards the woods, in which it was his habit to walk when in a pensive mood. He stepped slowly beneath the branches, a gust of wind stirring up the ashes behind him in a great, swirling eddy, a burning brand that rose up and dispersed on the winds as though it were the willow's last breath. 
            Allan wandered beneath the trees for a time, thoughts drifting through his mind like great banks of fog, strangely beautiful but impossible to penetrate. He considered Arthur's intervention; considered that it might be better to accept the fog and continue as his lifelong friend had suggested, to write stories that others would read; for after all, what purpose writing if not to be read? And without that torturous willow, he might be free to write whatever he saw fit. Indeed, if he still could not, he could at any time follow Arthur's advice and seek a profession more grounded in reality. Perhaps that would be more healthy for his mind. He found himself along the bank of a low, wide stream and allowed himself to follow its current. As it turned to the deeper woods, elder giants rose above him: a beech, smooth bark a gray-green pennant hoisted on a slope and standing out between the dark, cracked trunks of the nearer trees; great pines, a few magnificent specimens still bearing the three-stroke symbol of the British King; a towering black birch, leaves impossibly high above him. As the stream wound its way through the largest pines, grown so great as to eclipse that feature of the landscape they had once crowded about for sweet water as saplings, Allan continued, slowing his pace to climb across the toes of the slumbering giants. There was hardly enough room for his slim frame between the trunks that overshadowed any fleeting mortal trespass.
            Emerging from between the antediluvian trunks, Allan set his feet softly down onto the carpet of needles and stopped. Before him, roots imbibing the sweet water of the stream, grew a stand of black willows. Fallen trunks lay rotting across the rivulet; the living elders oversaw the grove while younger trees, still small and not yet as knotted and gnarled as their forefathers, sprang up where branches reached the ground. Though the elders' trunks fell and died, their children, first roots grown from the very branches that now lay dead, continued unabated, a continuous line from the most ancient of their ancestors.
            Allan stumbled forward, jaw slightly slack, until his outstretched hands encountered the rough bark of a twisted, three-trunked willow whose waists were each larger than Allan himself. Collapsing at its base, Allan wrapped his arms around the stoic tree and let forth a moan, a cry of purest agony that escaped him as the first tears seeped from the corners of his eyes and slid down his cheeks, falling to the ground and seeping though the fallen leaves and needles to join the water of the stream, flowing through the ground beneath them.
         
      
   
   

    
        
            WARTIME
            After the attacks had occurred, while crisis managers were still sorting out a number
                of unnerving false alarms, Air Force One flew to Barksdale Air Force Base in
                Louisiana. One of these alarms was of a reported threat against Air Force One
                itself, a threat eventually run down to a misunderstood communication in the hectic
                White House Situation Room that morning.
            
            While the plan at the elementary school had been to return to Washington, by the time
                Air Force One was airborne at 9:55 A.M. the Secret Service, the President's
                advisers, and Vice President Cheney were strongly advising against it. President
                Bush reluctantly acceded to this advice and, at about 10:10, Air Force One changed
                course and began heading due west. The immediate objective was to find a safe
                location-not too far away-where the President could land and speak to the American
                people. The Secret Service was also interested in refueling the aircraft and paring
                down the size of the traveling party. The President's military aide, an Air Force
                officer, quickly researched the options and, sometime around 10:20, identified
                Barksdale Air Force Base as an appropriate interim destination.
            
            When Air Force One landed at Barksdale at about 11:45, personnel from the local
                Secret Service office were still en route to the airfield. The motorcade consisted
                of a military police lead vehicle and a van; the proposed briefing theater had no
                phones or electrical outlets. Staff scrambled to prepare another room for the
                President's remarks, while the lead Secret Service agent reviewed the security
                situation with superiors in Washington. The President completed his statement, which
                for security reasons was taped and not broadcast live, and the traveling party
                returned to Air Force One. The next destination was discussed: once again the Secret
                Service recommended against returning to Washington, and the Vice President agreed.
                Offutt Air Force Base in Nebraska was chosen because of its elaborate command and
                control facilities, and because it could accommodate overnight lodging for 50
                persons. The Secret Service wanted a place where the President could spend several
                days, if necessary.
            
            Air Force One arrived at Offutt at 2:50 P.M. At about 3:15, President Bush met with
                his principal advisers through a secure video teleconference.
            
            Rice said President Bush began the meeting with the words, "We're at war," and that Director of Central Intelligence George Tenet said
                the agency was still assessing who was responsible, but the early signs all pointed
                to al Qaeda. That evening the Deputies Committee returned to the pending
                presidential directive they had labored over during the summer.
            
            The secretary of defense directed the nation's armed forces to Defense Condition 3,
                an increased state of military readiness.
            
            For the first time in history, all nonemergency civilian aircraft in the United
                States were grounded, stranding tens of thousands of passengers across the country.
                Contingency plans for the continuity of government and the evacuation of leaders had
                been implemented.   The Pentagon had been struck; the White House or the Capitol had
                narrowly escaped direct attack. Extraordinary security precautions were put in place
                at the nation's borders and ports.
            In the late afternoon, the President overruled his aides' continuing reluctance to
                have him return to Washington and ordered Air Force One back to Andrews Air Force
                Base. He was flown by helicopter back to the White House, passing over the
                still-smoldering Pentagon. At 8:30 that evening, President Bush addressed the nation
                from the White House. After emphasizing that the first priority was to help the
                injured and protect against any further attacks, he said: "We will make no
                distinction between the terrorists who committed these acts and those who harbor
                them." He quoted Psalm 23-"though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death .
                . ." No American, he said,"will ever forget this day."
            
            Following his speech, President Bush met again with his National Security Council
                (NSC), expanded to include Secretary of Transportation Norman Mineta and Joseph
                Allbaugh, the director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Secretary of
                State Colin Powell, who had returned from Peru after hearing of the attacks, joined
                the discussion. They reviewed the day's events.
            
            IMMEDIATE RESPONSES AT HOME
            As the urgent domestic issues accumulated, White House Deputy Chief of Staff Joshua
                Bolten chaired a temporary "domestic consequences" group.
            
            The agenda in those first days is worth noting, partly as a checklist for future
                crisis planners. It began with problems of how to help victims and stanch the
                flowing losses to the American economy, such as
            
                Organizing federal emergency assistance. One question was what kind of public
                    health advice to give about the air quality in Lower Manhattan in the vicinity
                    of the fallen buildings.
                
                Compensating victims. They evaluated legislative options, eventually setting
                    up a federal compensation fund and defining the powers of a special master to
                    run it.
                Determining federal assistance. On September 13, President Bush promised to
                    provide $20 billion for New York City, in addition to the $20 billion his budget
                    director had already guessed might be needed for the country as a whole.
                
                Restoring civil aviation. On the morning of September 13, the national
                    airspace reopened for use by airports that met newly improvised security
                    standards.
                Reopening the financial markets. After extraordinary emergency efforts
                    involving the White House, the Treasury Department, and the Securities and
                    Exchange Commission, aided by unprecedented cooperation among the usually
                    competitive firms of the financial industry, the markets reopened on Monday,
                    September 17.
                
                Deciding when and how to return border and port security to more normal
                    operations.
                Evaluating legislative proposals to bail out the airline industry and cap its
                    liability.
            
            The very process of reviewing these issues underscored the absence of an effective
                government organization dedicated to assessing vulnerabilities and handling problems
                of protection and preparedness. Though a number of agencies had some part of the
                task, none had security as its primary mission. By September 14, Vice President
                Cheney had decided to recommend, at least as a first step, a new White House entity
                to coordinate all the relevant agencies rather than tackle the challenge of
                combining them in a new department. This new White House entity would be a homeland
                security adviser and Homeland Security Council-paralleling the National Security
                Council system. Vice President Cheney reviewed the proposal with President Bush and
                other advisers. President Bush announced the new post and its first occupant-
                Pennsylvania governor Tom Ridge-in his address to a joint session of Congress on
                September 20.
            
            Beginning on September 11, Immigration and Naturalization Service agents working in
                cooperation with the FBI began arresting individuals for immigration violations whom
                they encountered while following up leads in the FBI's investigation of the 9/11
                attacks. Eventually, 768 aliens were arrested as "special interest" detainees. Some
                (such as Zacarias Moussaoui) were actually in INS custody before 9/11; most were
                arrested after. Attorney General John Ashcroft told us that he saw his job in
                directing this effort as "risk minimization," both to find out who had committed the
                attacks and to prevent a subsequent attack. Ashcroft ordered all special interest
                immigration hearings closed to the public, family members, and press; directed
                government attorneys to seek denial of bond until such time as they were "cleared"
                of terrorist connections by the FBI and other agencies; and ordered the identity of
                the detainees kept secret. INS attorneys charged with prosecuting the immigration
                violations had trouble getting information about the detainees and any terrorist
                connections; in the chaos after the attacks, it was very difficult to reach law
                enforcement officials, who were following up on other leads. The clearance process
                approved by the Justice Department was time-consuming, lasting an average of about
                80 days.
            
            We have assessed this effort to detain aliens of "special interest." The detainees
                were lawfully held on immigration charges. Records indicate that 531 were deported,
                162 were released on bond, 24 received some kind of immigration benefits, 12 had
                their proceedings terminated, and 8-one of whom was Moussaoui-were remanded to the
                custody of the U.S. Marshals Service. The inspector general of the Justice
                Department found significant problems in the way the 9/11 detainees were
                    treated.
            
            In response to a request about the counterterrorism benefits of the 9/11 detainee
                program, the Justice Department cited six individuals on the special interest
                detainee list, noting that two (including Moussaoui) were linked directly to a
                terrorist organization and that it had obtained new leads helpful to the
                investigation of the 9/11 terrorist attacks.
            
            A senior al Qaeda detainee has stated that U.S. government efforts after the 9/11
                attacks to monitor the American homeland, including review of Muslims' immigration
                files and deportation of nonpermanent residents, forced al Qaeda to operate less
                freely in the United States.
            
            The government's ability to collect intelligence inside the United States, and the
                sharing of such information between the intelligence and law enforcement
                communities, was not a priority before 9/11. Guidelines on this subject issued in
                August 2001 by Deputy Attorney General LarryThompson essentially recapitulated prior
                guidance. However, the attacks of 9/11 changed everything. Less than one week after
                September 11, an early version of what was to become the Patriot Act (officially,
                the USA PATRIOT Act) began to take shape.
            
            A central provision of the proposal was the removal of "the wall" on information
                sharing between the intelligence and law enforcement communities (discussed in
                chapter 3). Ashcroft told us he was determined to take every conceivable action,
                within the limits of the Constitution, to identify potential terrorists and deter
                additional attacks.
            
            The administration developed a proposal that eventually passed both houses of
                Congress by large majorities and was signed into law on October 26.
            
            Flights of Saudi Nationals Leaving the United States
            Three questions have arisen with respect to the departure of Saudi nationals from the
                United States in the immediate aftermath of 9/11: (1) Did any flights of Saudi
                nationals take place before national airspace reopened on September 13, 2001? (2)
                Was there any political intervention to facilitate the departure of Saudi nationals?
                (3) Did the FBI screen Saudi nationals thoroughly before their departure?
            First, we found no evidence that any flights of Saudi nationals, domestic or
                international, took place before the reopening of national airspace on the morning
                of September 13, 2001.   To the contrary, every flight we have identified occurred
                after national airspace reopened.
            
            Second, we found no evidence of political intervention. We found no evidence that
                anyone at the White House above the level of Richard Clarke participated in a
                decision on the departure of Saudi nationals. The issue came up in one of the many
                video teleconferences of the interagency group Clarke chaired, and Clarke said he
                approved of how the FBI was dealing with the matter when it came up for interagency
                discussion at his level. Clarke told us, "I asked the FBI, Dale Watson . . . to
                handle that, to check to see if that was all right with them, to see if they wanted
                access to any of these people, and to get back to me. And if they had no objections,
                it would be fine with me." Clarke added,"I have no recollection of clearing it with
                anybody at the White House."
            
            Although White House Chief of Staff Andrew Card remembered someone telling him about
                the Saudi request shortly after 9/11, he said he had not talked to the Saudis and
                did not ask anyone to do anything about it. The President and Vice President told us
                they were not aware of the issue at all until it surfaced much later in the media.
                None of the officials we interviewed recalled any intervention or direction on this
                matter from any political appointee.
            
            Third, we believe that the FBI conducted a satisfactory screening of Saudi nationals
                who left the United States on charter flights.
            
            The Saudi government was advised of and agreed to the FBI's requirements that
                passengers be identified and checked against various databases before the flights
                departed.  The Federal Aviation Administration representative working in the FBI
                operations center made sure that the FBI was aware of the flights of Saudi nationals
                and was able to screen the passengers before they were allowed to depart.
            
            The FBI interviewed all persons of interest on these flights prior to their
                departures. They concluded that none of the passengers was connected to the 9/11
                attacks and have since found no evidence to change that conclusion. Our own
                independent review of the Saudi nationals involved confirms that no one with known
                links to terrorism departed on these flights.
            
            PLANNING FOR WAR
            By late in the evening of September 11, the President had addressed the nation on the
                terrible events of the day. Vice President Cheney described the President's mood as
                somber.  The long day was not yet over. When the larger meeting that included his
                domestic department heads broke up, President Bush chaired a smaller meeting of top
                advisers, a group he would later call his "war council."  This group usually
                included Vice President Cheney, Secretary of State Powell, Secretary of Defense
                Donald Rumsfeld, General Hugh Shelton, Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs (later to
                become chairman) General Myers, DCI Tenet, Attorney General Ashcroft, and FBI
                Director Robert Mueller. From the White House staff, National Security Advisor
                Condoleezza Rice and Chief of Staff Card were part of the core group, often joined
                by their deputies, Stephen Hadley and Joshua Bolten.
            In this restricted National Security Council meeting, the President said it was a
                time for self-defense. The United States would punish not just the perpetrators of
                the attacks, but also those who harbored them. Secretary Powell said the United
                States had to make it clear to Pakistan, Afghanistan, and the Arab states that the
                time to act was now. He said we would need to build a coalition. The President noted
                that the attacks provided a great opportunity to engage Russia and China. Secretary
                Rumsfeld urged the President and the principals to think broadly about who might
                have harbored the attackers, including Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya, Sudan, and Iran. He
                wondered aloud how much evidence the United States would need in order to deal with
                these countries, pointing out that major strikes could take up to 60 days to
                    assemble.
            
            President Bush chaired two more meetings of the NSC on September 12. In the first
                meeting, he stressed that the United States was at war with a new and different kind
                of enemy. The President tasked principals to go beyond their pre-9/11 work and
                develop a strategy to eliminate terrorists and punish those who support them. As
                they worked on defining the goals and objectives of the upcoming campaign, they
                considered a paper that went beyond al Qaeda to propose the "elimination of
                terrorism as a threat to our way of life," an aim that would include pursuing other
                international terrorist organizations in the Middle East.
            
            Rice chaired a Principals Committee meeting on September 13 in the Situation Room to
                refine how the fight against al Qaeda would be conducted. The principals agreed that
                the overall message should be that anyone supporting al Qaeda would risk harm. The
                United States would need to integrate diplomacy, financial measures, intelligence,
                and military actions into an overarching strategy. The principals also focused on
                Pakistan and what it could do to turn the Taliban against al Qaeda. They concluded
                that if Pakistan decided not to help the United States, it too would be at
                    risk.
            
            The same day, Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage met with the Pakistani
                ambassador to the United States, Maleeha Lodhi, and the visiting head of Pakistan's
                military intelligence service, Mahmud Ahmed. Armitage said that the United States
                wanted Pakistan to take seven steps:
            
                to stop al Qaeda operatives at its border and end all logistical support for
                    Bin Ladin;
                to give the United States blanket overflight and landing rights for all
                    necessary military and intelligence operations;
                to provide territorial access to U.S. and allied military intelligence and
                    other personnel to conduct operations against al Qaeda;
                to provide the United States with intelligence information;
                to continue to publicly condemn the terrorist acts;
                to cut off all shipments of fuel to the Taliban and stop recruits from going
                    to Afghanistan; and,
                if the evidence implicated bin Ladin and al Qaeda and the Taliban continued to
                    harbor them, to break relations with the Taliban government.
                
            
            Pakistan made its decision swiftly. That afternoon, Secretary of State Powell
                announced at the beginning of an NSC meeting that Pakistani President Musharraf had
                agreed to every U.S. request for support in the war on terrorism. The next day, the
                U.S. embassy in Islamabad confirmed that Musharraf and his top military commanders
                had agreed to all seven demands." Pakistan will need full US support as it proceeds
                with us," the embassy noted." Musharraf said the GOP [government of Pakistan] was
                making substantial concessions in allowing use of its territory and that he would
                pay a domestic price. His standing in Pakistan was certain to suffer. To
                counterbalance that he needed to show that Pakistan was benefiting from his
                    decisions."
            
            At the September 13 NSC meeting, when Secretary Powell described Pakistan's reply,
                President Bush led a discussion of an appropriate ultimatum to the Taliban. He also
                ordered Secretary Rumsfeld to develop a military plan against the Taliban. The
                President wanted the United States to strike the Taliban, step back, wait to see if
                they got the message, and hit them hard if they did not. He made clear that the
                military should focus on targets that would influence the Taliban's behavior.
            
            President Bush also tasked the State Department, which on the following day delivered
                to the White House a paper titled "Game Plan for a Political- Military Strategy for
                Pakistan and Afghanistan." The paper took it as a given that Bin Ladin would
                continue to act against the United States even while under Taliban control. It
                therefore detailed specific U.S. demands for the Taliban: surrender Bin Ladin and
                his chief lieutenants, including Ayman al Zawahiri; tell the United States what the
                Taliban knew about al Qaeda and its operations; close all terrorist camps; free all
                imprisoned foreigners; and comply with all UN Security Council resolutions.
            
            The State Department proposed delivering an ultimatum to the Taliban: produce Bin
                Ladin and his deputies and shut down al Qaeda camps within 24 to 48 hours, or the
                United States will use all necessary means to destroy the terrorist infrastructure.
                The State Department did not expect the Taliban to comply. Therefore, State and
                Defense would plan to build an international coalition to go into Afghanistan. Both
                departments would consult with NATO and other allies and request intelligence,
                basing, and other support from countries, according to their capabilities and
                resources. Finally, the plan detailed a public U.S. stance: America would use all
                its resources to eliminate terrorism as a threat, punish those responsible for the
                9/11 attacks, hold states and other actors responsible for providing sanctuary to
                terrorists, work with a coalition to eliminate terrorist groups and networks, and
                avoid malice toward any people, religion, or culture.
            
            President Bush recalled that he quickly realized that the administration would have
                to invade Afghanistan with ground troops.
            
            But the early briefings to the President and Secretary Rumsfeld on military options
                were disappointing.    Tommy Franks, the commanding general of Central Command
                (CENTCOM), told us that the President was dissatisfied. The U.S. military, Franks
                said, did not have an off-the-shelf plan to eliminate the al Qaeda threat in
                Afghanistan. The existing Infinite Resolve options did not, in his view, amount to
                such a plan.
            
            All these diplomatic and military plans were reviewed over the weekend of September
                15-16, as President Bush convened his war council at Camp David.
            
            Present were Vice President Cheney, Rice, Hadley, Powell, Armitage, Rumsfeld,
                Ashcroft, Mueller, Tenet, Deputy Secretary of Defense Paul Wolfowitz, and Cofer
                Black, chief of the DCI's Counterterrorist Center.
            Tenet described a plan for collecting intelligence and mounting covert operations. He
                proposed inserting CIA teams into Afghanistan to work with Afghan warlords who would
                join the fight against al Qaeda.  These CIA teams would act jointly with the
                military's Special Operations units. President Bush later praised this proposal,
                saying it had been a turning point in his thinking.
            
            General Shelton briefed the principals on the preliminary plan for Afghanistan that
                the military had put together. It drew on the Infinite Resolve "phased campaign"
                plan the Pentagon had begun developing in November 2000 as an addition to the strike
                options it had been refining since 1998. But Shelton added a new element-the
                possible significant use of ground forces- and that is where President Bush
                reportedly focused his attention.
            
            After hearing from his senior advisers, President Bush discussed with Rice the
                contents of the directives he would issue to set all the plans into motion. Rice
                prepared a paper that President Bush then considered with principals on Monday
                morning, September 17. "The purpose of this meeting," he recalled saying,"is to
                assign tasks for the first wave of the war against terrorism. It starts today."
            
            In a written set of instructions slightly refined during the morning meeting,
                President Bush charged Ashcroft, Mueller, and Tenet to develop a plan for homeland
                defense. President Bush directed Secretary of State Powell to deliver an ultimatum
                to the Taliban along the lines that his department had originally proposed. The
                State Department was also tasked to develop a plan to stabilize Pakistan and to be
                prepared to notify Russia and countries near Afghanistan when hostilities were
                    imminent.
            
            In addition, Bush and his advisers discussed new legal authorities for covert action
                in Afghanistan, including the administration's first Memorandum of Notification on
                Bin Ladin. Shortly thereafter, President Bush authorized broad new authorities for
                the CIA.
            
            President Bush instructed Rumsfeld and Shelton to develop further the Camp David
                military plan to attack the Taliban and al Qaeda if the Taliban rejected the
                ultimatum. The President also tasked Rumsfeld to ensure that robust measures to
                protect American military forces against terrorist attack were implemented
                worldwide. Finally, he directed Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill to craft a plan to
                target al Qaeda's funding and seize its assets.
            
            NSC staff members had begun leading meetings on terrorist fund-raising by September
                    18.
            
            Also by September 18, Powell had contacted 58 of his foreign counterparts and
                received offers of general aid, search-and-rescue equipment and personnel, and
                medical assistance teams.
            
            On the same day, Deputy Secretary of State Armitage was called by Mahmud Ahmed
                regarding a two-day visit to Afghanistan during which the Pakistani intelligence
                chief had met with Mullah Omar and conveyed the U.S. demands. Omar's response was
                "not negative on all these points." But the
                administration knew that theTaliban was unlikely to turn over Bin Ladin.
            
            The pre-9/11 draft presidential directive on al Qaeda evolved into a new directive,
                National Security Presidential Directive 9, now titled "Defeating the Terrorist
                Threat to the United States." The directive would now extend to a global war on
                terrorism, not just on al Qaeda. It also incorporated the President's determination
                not to distinguish between terrorists and those who harbor them. It included a
                determination to use military force if necessary to end al Qaeda's sanctuary in
                Afghanistan. The new directive-formally signed on October 25, after the fighting in
                Afghanistan had already begun-included new material followed by annexes discussing
                each targeted terrorist group. The old draft directive on al Qaeda became, in
                effect, the first annex.
            
            The United States would strive to eliminate all terrorist networks, dry up their
                financial support, and prevent them from acquiring weapons of mass destruction. The
                goal was the "elimination of terrorism as a threat to our way of life."
            
            "PHASE TWO" AND THE QUESTION OF IRAQ
            President Bush had wondered immediately after the attack whether Saddam Hussein's
                regime might have had a hand in it. Iraq had been an enemy of the United States for
                11 years, and was the only place in the world where the United States was engaged in
                ongoing combat operations. As a former pilot, the President was struck by the
                apparent sophistication of the operation and some of the piloting, especially
                Hanjour's high-speed dive into the Pentagon. He told us he recalled Iraqi support
                for Palestinian suicide terrorists as well. Speculating about other possible states
                that could be involved, the President told us he also thought about Iran.
            
            Clarke has written that on the evening of September 12, President Bush told him and
                some of his staff to explore possible Iraqi links to 9/11. "See if Saddam did this,"
                Clarke recalls the President telling them." See if he's linked in any way." While he believed the details of Clarke's account to be
                incorrect, President Bush acknowledged that he might well have spoken to Clarke at
                some point, asking him about Iraq.
            
            Responding to a presidential tasking, Clarke's office sent a memo to Rice on
                September 18, titled "Survey of Intelligence Information on Any Iraq Involvement in
                the September 11 Attacks." Rice's chief staffer on Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad,
                concurred in its conclusion that only some anecdotal evidence linked Iraq to al
                Qaeda. The memo found no "compelling case" that Iraq had either planned or
                perpetrated the attacks. It passed along a few foreign intelligence reports,
                including the Czech report alleging an April 2001 Prague meeting between Atta and an
                Iraqi intelligence officer (discussed in chapter 7) and a Polish report that
                personnel at the headquarters of Iraqi intelligence in Baghdad were told before
                September 11 to go on the streets to gauge crowd reaction to an unspecified event.
                Arguing that the case for links between Iraq and al Qaeda was weak, the memo pointed
                out that Bin Ladin resented the secularism of Saddam Hussein's regime. Finally, the
                memo said, there was no confirmed reporting on Saddam cooperating with Bin Ladin on
                unconventional weapons.
            
            On the afternoon of 9/11, according to contemporaneous notes, Secretary Rumsfeld
                instructed General Myers to obtain quickly as much information as possible. The
                notes indicate that he also told Myers that he was not simply interested in striking
                empty training sites. He thought the U.S. response should consider a wide range of
                options and possibilities. The secretary said his instinct was to hit Saddam Hussein
                at the same time-not only Bin Ladin. Secretary Rumsfeld later explained that at the
                time, he had been considering either one of them, or perhaps someone else, as the
                responsible party.
            
            According to Rice, the issue of what, if anything, to do about Iraq was really
                engaged at Camp David. Briefing papers on Iraq, along with many others, were in
                briefing materials for the participants. Rice told us the administration was
                concerned that Iraq would take advantage of the 9/11 attacks. She recalled that in
                the first Camp David session chaired by the President, Rumsfeld asked what the
                administration should do about Iraq. Deputy Secretary Wolfowitz made the case for
                striking Iraq during "this round" of the war on terrorism.
            
            A Defense Department paper for the Camp David briefing book on the strategic concept
                for the war on terrorism specified three priority targets for initial action: al
                Qaeda, theTaliban, and Iraq. It argued that of the three, al Qaeda and Iraq posed a
                strategic threat to the United States. Iraq's long-standing involvement in terrorism
                was cited, along with its interest in weapons of mass destruction.
            
            Secretary Powell recalled that Wolfowitz-not Rumsfeld-argued that Iraq was ultimately
                the source of the terrorist problem and should therefore be attacked.
            
            Powell said that Wolfowitz was not able to justify his belief that Iraq was behind
                9/11. "Paul was always of the view that Iraq was a problem that had to be dealt
                with," Powell told us." And he saw this as one way of using this event as a way to
                deal with the Iraq problem." Powell said that President Bush did not give
                Wolfowitz's argument "much weight." Though continuing to
                worry about Iraq in the following week, Powell said, President Bush saw Afghanistan
                as the priority.
            
            President Bush told Bob Woodward that the decision not to invade Iraq was made at the
                morning session on September 15. Iraq was not even on the table during the September
                15 afternoon session, which dealt solely with Afghanistan.
            
            Rice said that when President Bush called her on Sunday, September 16, he said the
                focus would be on Afghanistan, although he still wanted plans for Iraq should the
                country take some action or the administration eventually determine that it had been
                involved in the 9/11 attacks.
            
            At the September 17 NSC meeting, there was some further discussion of "phase two" of
                the war on terrorism.
            
            President Bush ordered the Defense Department to be ready to deal with Iraq if
                Baghdad acted against U.S. interests, with plans to include possibly occupying Iraqi
                oil fields.
            
            Within the Pentagon, Deputy Secretary Wolfowitz continued to press the case for
                dealing with Iraq. Writing to Rumsfeld on September 17 in a memo headlined
                "Preventing More Events,"he argued that if there was even a 10 percent chance that
                Saddam Hussein was behind the 9/11 attack, maximum priority should be placed on
                eliminating that threat. Wolfowitz contended that the odds were "far more" than 1 in
                10, citing Saddam's praise for the attack, his long record of involvement in
                terrorism, and theories that Ramzi Yousef was an Iraqi agent and Iraq was behind the
                1993 attack on the World Trade Center.    The next day, Wolfowitz renewed the
                argument, writing to Rumsfeld about the interest of Yousef 's co-conspirator in the
                1995 Manila air plot in crashing an explosives-laden plane into CIA headquarters,
                and about information from a foreign government regarding Iraqis' involvement in the
                attempted hijacking of a Gulf Air flight. Given this background, he wondered why so
                little thought had been devoted to the danger of suicide pilots, seeing a "failure
                of imagination" and a mind-set that dismissed possibilities.
            
            On September 19, Rumsfeld offered several thoughts for his commanders as they worked
                on their contingency plans. Though he emphasized the worldwide nature of the
                conflict, the references to specific enemies or regions named only the Taliban, al
                Qaeda, and Afghanistan.
            
            Shelton told us the administration reviewed all the Pentagon's war plans and
                challenged certain assumptions underlying them, as any prudent organization or
                leader should do.
            
            General Tommy Franks, the commanding general of Central Command, recalled receiving
                Rumsfeld's guidance that each regional commander should assess what these plans
                meant for his area of responsibility. He knew he would soon be striking the Taliban
                and al Qaeda in Afghanistan. But, he told us, he now wondered how that action was
                connected to what might need to be done in Somalia, Yemen, or Iraq.
            
            On September 20, President Bush met with British Prime Minister Tony Blair, and the
                two leaders discussed the global conflict ahead. When Blair asked about Iraq, the
                President replied that Iraq was not the immediate problem. Some members of his
                administration, he commented, had expressed a different view, but he was the one
                responsible for making the decisions.
            
            Franks told us that he was pushing independently to do more robust planning on
                military responses in Iraq during the summer before 9/11-a request President Bush
                denied, arguing that the time was not right. (CENTCOM also began dusting off plans
                for a full invasion of Iraq during this period, Franks said.) The CENTCOM commander
                told us he renewed his appeal for further military planning to respond to Iraqi
                moves shortly after 9/11, both because he personally felt that Iraq and al Qaeda
                might be engaged in some form of collusion and because he worried that Saddam might
                take advantage of the attacks to move against his internal enemies in the northern
                or southern parts of Iraq, where the United States was flying regular missions to
                enforce Iraqi no-fly zones. Franks said that President Bush again turned down the
                    request.
            
            Having issued directives to guide his administration's preparations for war, on
                Thursday, September 20, President Bush addressed the nation before a joint session
                of Congress." Tonight," he said, "we are a country awakened to danger." The President blamed al Qaeda for 9/11 and the 1998
                embassy bombings and, for the first time, declared that al Qaeda was "responsible
                for bombing the USS Cole." He reiterated the ultimatum
                that had already been conveyed privately." The Taliban must act, and act
                immediately," he said." They will hand over the terrorists, or they will share in
                their fate." The President added that America's quarrel
                was not with Islam: "The enemy of America is not our many Muslim friends; it is not
                our many Arab friends. Our enemy is a radical network of terrorists, and every
                government that supports them." Other regimes faced hard choices, he pointed out:
                "Every nation, in every region, now has a decision to make: Either you are with us,
                or you are with the terrorists."
            
            President Bush argued that the new war went beyond Bin Ladin." Our war on terror
                begins with al Qaeda, but it does not end there," he said." It will not end until
                every terrorist group of global reach has been found, stopped, and defeated." The
                President had a message for the Pentagon:"The hour is coming when America will act,
                and you will make us proud." He also had a message for those outside the United
                States." This is civilization's fight," he said. "We ask every nation to join
                    us."
            
            President Bush approved military plans to attack Afghanistan in meetings with Central
                Command's General Franks and other advisers on September 21 and October 2.
                Originally titled "Infinite Justice," the operation's code word was changed-to avoid
                the sensibilities of Muslims who associate the power of infinite justice with God
                alone-to the operational name still used for operations in Afghanistan:"Enduring
                    Freedom."
            
            The plan had four phases.
            
                In Phase One, the United States and its allies would move forces into the
                    region and arrange to operate from or over neighboring countries such as
                    Uzbekistan and Pakistan. This occurred in the weeks following 9/11, aided by
                    overwhelming international sympathy for the United States.
                In Phase Two, air strikes and Special Operations attacks would hit key al
                    Qaeda and Taliban targets. In an innovative joint effort, CIA and Special
                    Operations forces would be deployed to work together with each major Afghan
                    faction opposed to the Taliban. The Phase Two strikes and raids began on October
                    7. The basing arrangements contemplated for Phase One were substantially
                    secured-after arduous effort-by the end of that month.
                In Phase Three, the United States would carry out "decisive operations" using
                    all elements of national power, including ground troops, to topple the Taliban
                    regime and eliminate al Qaeda's sanctuary in Afghanistan. Mazar-e-Sharif, in
                    northern Afghanistan, fell to a coalition assault by Afghan and U.S. forces on
                    November 9. Four days later the Taliban had fled from Kabul. By early December,
                    all major cities had fallen to the coalition. On December 22, Hamid Karzai, a
                    Pashtun leader from Kandahar, was installed as the chairman of Afghanistan's
                    interim administration. Afghanistan had been liberated from the rule of the
                    Taliban.
            
            In December 2001, Afghan forces, with limited U.S. support, engaged al Qaeda elements
                in a cave complex called Tora Bora. In March 2002, the largest engagement of the war
                was fought, in the mountainous Shah-i-Kot area south of Gardez, against a large
                force of al Qaeda jihadists. The three-week battle was substantially successful, and
                almost all remaining al Qaeda forces took refuge in Pakistan's equally mountainous
                and lightly governed frontier provinces. As of July 2004, Bin Ladin and Zawahiri are
                still believed to be at large.
            
                In Phase Four, civilian and military operations turned to the indefinite task
                    of what the armed forces call "security and stability operations."
            
            Within about two months of the start of combat operations, several hundred CIA
                operatives and Special Forces soldiers, backed by the striking power of U.S.
                aircraft and a much larger infrastructure of intelligence and support efforts, had
                combined with Afghan militias and a small number of other coalition soldiers to
                destroy theTaliban regime and disrupt al Qaeda. They had killed or captured about a
                quarter of the enemy's known leaders. Mohammed Atef, al Qaeda's military commander
                and a principal figure in the 9/11 plot, had been killed by a U.S. air strike.
                According to a senior CIA officer who helped devise the overall strategy, the CIA
                provided intelligence, experience, cash, covert action capabilities, and entre to
                tribal allies. In turn, the U.S. military offered combat expertise, firepower,
                logistics, and communications.
            
            With these initial victories won by the middle of 2002, the global conflict against
                Islamist terrorism became a different kind of struggle.
        
    




Introduction 

As recognized by the President's National Energy Plan (NEP), one
of the principal energy challenges facing us is increasing our
energy supplies in ways that protect and improve the environment.
Thus, the President directed EPA to propose legislation that would
significantly reduce SO2, NOx, and mercury emissions from power
generation through a cap and trade program. Such a program, coupled
with appropriate measures to address local concerns, would provide
significant health benefits even as we increase energy supplies and
maintain reasonable electricity rates.
Our work on this issue has given us insight that I believe will
be helpful to you. The more I learn about the cost and
inefficiencies of the current and future regulatory regime to which
power generators will be subjected if we do not have new
legislation, the more I am convinced that we can --and must --
develop a smarter approach that protects the environment and public
health while reducing the cost to consumers and industry and
optimizing the size of both the state and federal government
machinery necessary to achieve that protection. It is possible to
achieve better results at lower costs,
but not if we simply add yet another program on top of all of
the existing regulations.
The current Clean Air Act has been enormously successful, but we
can do better. Significant cost savings can be achieved for power
generators and consumers through a comprehensive legislative
package. I look forward to working with you to develop such an
approach to reduce emissions from power generation. We applaud
Senator Jeffords for tackling this important issue and for
recognizing that a cap and trade program is the best way to achieve
these reductions. However, we have significant concerns with S. 556
as drafted. Our analysis to date suggests that it could increase
consumers' electricity rates by as much as 50%, which we believe is
unacceptable. In addition, the combination of emission reductions
and timing is not feasible and could threaten the reliability of
electricity supply. We are concerned that S. 556's short timeframes
for installation of controls could lead power plants to be taken
off-line at important times, which could lead to electricity
shortages.
In addition, there are a number of issues that Congress should
consider that S. 556 does not address. As drafted, S. 556 would
make some existing requirements unnecessary, but would not
eliminate them. Rather than add yet another layer of environmental
regulations on top of the existing ones, we believe that S. 556
should eliminate those unnecessary existing requirements. S. 556
also does not have an allocation scheme. One lesson we should learn
from the success of the Acid Rain cap and trade program is that
when certain key issues can be resolved through clear legislation,
we can avoid years of litigation, business uncertainty and costs,
and delayed environmental protection.
Finally, and most importantly, the Administration strongly
opposes including CO2 reductions in any multi-pollutant bill. The
CO2 provisions in S. 556 will cost consumers too much and endanger
our energy security by causing too much electricity generation to
switch from coal to natural gas. Greenhouse gas emissions should be
addressed in the context of climate change, which is being
undertaken by the President's Cabinet level working group. For all
of these reasons, the Administration must oppose S. 556. In my
testimony today I will elaborate further on these key points.


Background 

Over the last 30 years, we have made substantial progress
towards improved environmental quality under the Clean Air Act.
During this time, gross domestic product has increased almost 160%.
At the same time, we have reduced emissions of six key air
pollutants by 29%, while coal consumption has increased 77% and
energy consumption has increased 45%. Eleven years ago President
George H. W. Bush signed into law the most far reaching amendments
to the Clean Air Act since its enactment in 1970. Included in those
amendments was the Acid Rain cap and trade program, the first
program tailored specifically to the utility sector, which is
achieving significant environmental and public health benefits at a
fraction of the initial cost estimates and with relatively little
government bureaucracy. It is time to revisit and update the Clean
Air Act once again in order to achieve the additional reductions
needed to address public health and environmental problems in the
most cost effective manner.
The Acid Rain Program is achieving its emission reduction goal
at a fraction of the estimated costs because it allows and
encourages innovative thinking and long range planning.1 The
existing program establishes a cap on SO2 emissions to ensure that
the environmental goal is met, and employs an innovative
market-based allowance trading program to achieve the goal at
lowest cost. Allowances are the currency with which compliance with
the SO2 emissions requirements is achieved. Sources, rather than
government, decide the most cost-effective way to use available
resources to comply. Units that reduce their emissions below the
number of allowances they hold may trade allowances with other
units in the system, sell them to other sources or save them for
future use. There are neither restrictions on trading nor
government second-guessing.
Allowance trading provides incentives for energy conservation
and technology innovation that can both lower the cost of
compliance and yield pollution prevention benefits. Simply, the
allowance market puts a price or value on each ton of SO2 not 
emitted. The association of a monetary value
with reduced emissions encourages innovation: in the 1990's,
scrubber costs decreased by approximately 40% and scrubber sulfur
removal efficiencies improved from 90% to 95%, and experimentation
led to the blending of fuels to lower emissions. To ensure that the
cap is met and to provide credibility, sources also are required to
install systems that continuously monitor and report emissions.
The Acid Rain Program has proven to be an excellent model for
cap and trade programs. Compliance with the program has been nearly
100 percent and annual emissions of SO2 from power plants have
already been reduced over 6 million tons (about 35 percent) from
1980 levels. Greater reductions earlier than expected have lowered
risks to human health and provided benefits to the environment
sooner. Acid rain levels were dramatically reduced over large areas
of the U.S. and trading did not result in geographic shifting of
emissions, or "hot spots", as some feared.
Despite the significant progress we have made under the Clean
Air Act, air emissions from power generators are still contributing
to serious public health and environmental problems. Administrator
Whitman addressed these concerns extensively in her testimony
before you on July 26, 2001. Rather than reiterate her testimony, I
will emphasize just a few of her key points. Problems associated
with sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx), and mercury
emissions are of national and international significance, and the
interstate and long range transport of emissions continue to play
significant roles in the nature and magnitude of the problems.
Emission and deposition of SO2, NOx, and mercury and their
transformation byproducts are known to have a wide range of adverse
effects on human health and the environment, including:
 SO2 and NOx emissions contribute to fine particles, which are
associated with premature mortality, aggravated chronic bronchitis,
hospitalizations due to cardio-respiratory symptoms, emergency room
visits due to aggravated asthma symptoms, and acute respiratory
symptoms.
1 Governor Whitman's July 26, 2001, testimony before this
Committee contains a detailed discussion of the success of the Acid
Rain cap and trade program.
Fine particles formed from power plant emissions as well as
mobile source emissions are of
concern.  NOx emissions contribute to ground-level ozone,
which aggravates respiratory illnesses and causes lung
inflammation, particularly for at-risk populations such as
children, the elderly and those afflicted with asthma, emphysema,
and other respiratory ailments.
 Mercury emissions contribute to mercury deposition in water.
Children born to women who consume large amounts of
mercury-contaminated fish while pregnant may be at risk for
neurodevelopmental defects.
 SO2 and NOx emissions contribute to atmospheric sulfate and
nitrate concentrations that cause visibility impairment, including
impairment in many national parks and wilderness areas.
 SO2 and NOx contribute to acid deposition, which damages
lakes and streams, adversely affecting the fish and other species
that live in them, and leaches nutrients from the soil.
 NOx emissions contribute to nitrogen deposition that may lead
to eutrophication of estuaries and near-coastal waters and can
damage forested watersheds.
EPA, states, and industry, working together, have made important
strides in addressing the adverse impacts of fossil fuel combustion
by the electric power industry since the passage of the Clean Air
Act in 1970. Despite significant improvements in air quality
throughout the country however, emissions from power generation
continue to result in serious health, environmental and economic
impacts. In 1999, the electric power industry was responsible for
67% of sulfur dioxide emissions, 25% of nitrogen oxide emissions,
and 37% of mercury emissions in the United States.


Business as Usual 

The President's flexible, market-based approach to reducing
emissions from power generators stands in sharp contrast to the
complex web of existing regulations which currently confront the
industry. Over the years, Congress, EPA and the States have
responded to specific environmental and public health problems by
developing separate regulatory programs to address the specific
problems. Each individual program uses its own approach on its own
timeline to serve its own purpose. Absent changes to the Act, EPA
and states will be forced to follow the same approach in future
regulations. It is time to consolidate and simplify to achieve our
clean air goals. A comprehensive legislative approach with
mandatory caps could replace a good portion of the current
regulatory requirements with a system that will reduce the
administrative burden on industry and governments, use market-based
approaches to lower compliance costs, reduce consumers' costs, and
increase national energy security by providing the industry with
more certainty about its future regulatory obligations. By enacting
such an approach, we can achieve environmental and public health
protection more effectively and at less cost. If we do it the
President's way, it will be a win-win.
There are many regulations in place that will reduce air
emissions from electric power generation. These regulations include
both federal and State requirements that address a variety of
emissions including SO2, NOx, CO, PM10, and a number of hazardous
air pollutants. These programs
include the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for SO2,
particulate matter and ozone, the section 126 and the NOx SIP Call
rules, the Acid Rain Program, new source review, new source
performance standards, and the regional haze rule.
But the regulation of power generators does not end with
existing regulations. EPA is obligated by a settlement agreement to
issue by the end of 2004 a Maximum Achievable Control Technology
(MACT) standard to require source-specific controls of mercury and
other hazardous air pollutants from electric utilities. Emissions
reductions are required by the end of 2007. States will also be
requiring utilities to comply with Best Available Retrofit
Technology (BART) programs (either source-specific standards or a
trading program) to meet requirements to reduce regional haze.
It is expected that the existing fine particle and ozone
standards now in place will also result in further regulation of
power generators. Modeling shows that when full implementation of
existing regulations such as the acid rain program, the NOx SIP
Call, the Tier II standards for cars and trucks, the heavy duty
diesel engine standards, and the low sulfur gasoline and diesel
fuel rules are taken into account, additional reductions will be
needed to bring areas into attainment. States will be required to
develop plans for these areas. In addition, NOx and SO2 reductions
are also needed to reduce continuing damage from acid rain and
nitrogen deposition.
Because states and EPA will have to find some way to
significantly reduce NOx and SO2 emissions, it is probable that
power generators will be required to reduce their emissions
significantly. Power generation accounts for a significant
percentage of these emissions, and our analysis shows that there
are significant reductions available at lower cost than from other
sources. Additionally, states know that if they do not get the
reductions from power generators, they will have to impose
significant reduction requirements on other local industrial and
commercial sources or impose local transportation control
measures.
Under current law, the necessary reductions would be achieved
through the development of individual state plans. States will not
just control their own sources, however. They will be reaching out
to control power generators and large industrial facilities in
other states because transport from other states contributes to
both ozone and fine particle pollution in many areas. This is what
has happened in the eastern part of the country when states
realized that emissions from sources in other states were
significantly contributing to their 1-hour ozone non-attainment
problems. Under section 126 of the Clean Air Act, a state can
petition EPA and request that EPA require reductions from sources
outside the petitioning state's borders. The petitioning state is
entitled to relief if EPA finds that the sources are significantly
contributing to the petitioning state's nonattainment problem.
EPA's requirement, adopted in response to section 126 petitions,
that sources in a number of eastern states reduce NOx emissions was
recently upheld by the Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia Circuit. Since states now know that EPA has authority to
address transport pollution through responses to 126 petitions or
by issuing a rule like the NOx SIP Call, we anticipate that states
will be turning to these types of control approaches early in the
SIP process. Although those of us who are
traveling that path with the current 126 petitions and NOx SIP
Call believe it will eventually take us to our environmental goal,
it has been -- and still is -- a very rocky road for industry,
environmentalists, the states, EPA and other stakeholders.
This one-at-a-time, uncoordinated series of regulatory
requirements for the power industry is not the optimal approach for
the environment, the power generation sector, or American
consumers. With most plants needing to install control equipment to
meet these requirements, it is likely that this approach would lead
to installation of controls that become obsolete and stranded
capital investments as additional requirements are promulgated.
Further, the attainment efforts of individual States and localities
not only impose costs on these entities, but also can increase
complexity for companies which face differing requirements when
operations cross state lines. These factors are exacerbated by
limited timeframes that may constrain available compliance options
and thwart long range planning. These and other inefficiencies
point to the need for a nationally coordinated approach that could
reduce cost while improving environmental progress and
accountability.


Changing the Way We Do Business: Certainty, Flexibility,
Accountability and Innovation 

We believe there is a better way, one that could cost American
consumers and industry far less than under current law and ensure
protection of the air we breathe in a far more certain,
straightforward manner. I know that many members of this Committee
share that belief and are also working to develop such an approach.
It would provide power generators with more certainty about their
regulatory future and thus allow them to make wiser decisions about
investments in new technology, which would improve energy security.
This Administration is developing such a proposal. It will build on
the successes of the Acid Rain cap and trade program. It would
establish national cap-and-trade programs for NOx, SO2 and mercury
emissions from power generators (with appropriate measures to
address local concerns). Such an approach will benefit the power
generation industry, the economy, and the states, while improving
public health and the environment.
Up-front knowledge of future requirements for multiple
pollutants would lead firms to follow significantly different and
less expensive compliance strategies at individual plants, compared
with compliance choices which must be made as requirements are
addressed in a sequential manner under the current law. The savings
come from the opportunity to make cost-effective plant investment
and retirement decisions with full knowledge of upcoming SO2, NOx
and mercury requirements, rather than investing in "add-on" control
equipment to meet the requirements of each regulation. Integration,
advance knowledge, and certainty regarding environmental
requirements will have even greater value over the coming decade as
the electric power industry undergoes further structural changes.
An integrated package of measures that addresses both the existing
regulatory requirements as well as many future environmental needs
would provide the greatest degree of certainty and flexibility for
the industry, while achieving the necessary emission reductions at
lower cost than under current law.
In exchange for flexibility in methods to control emissions, a
full accounting of emissions through
continuous monitoring and reporting is essential, as well as
significant consequences for failing to comply. Such provisions
have been critical to the success of the Acid Rain Program,
encouraging individual sources to find the most cost-effective
means of compliance with the collective emission reduction
goal.
Flexibility stimulates technological innovation, fuels economic
activity and reduces cost to industry and consumers. Strategies and
technologies for the control of SO2, NOx and mercury emissions
exist now, and improved methods are expected to become available
over the next several years. The air pollution control and
monitoring technology industry is expected to continue to respond
with cost-effective compliance solutions just as they have done for
the past 30 years. A predictable demand for such jobs over the next
15 years is preferable to the boom and bust cycle created by the
current regulatory approach.
This approach also would reduce states' administrative burdens
and obligations. A national cap and trade program with appropriate
caps for NOx and SO2 could provide the emission reductions
necessary to bring a significant number of areas into attainment
with the ozone and fine particle standards. Even those areas that
would not be brought into attainment by these caps would need
significantly fewer emission reductions to come into attainment.
Our approach would significantly reduce the state resources needed
to conduct modeling, planning and regulatory activities to attain
the standards. Additionally, the Acid Rain cap and trade program is
administered with a relatively small staff relying on strong,
state-of-the-art data tracking and reporting capabilities. Thus,
well-designed national cap and trade programs can help use
government resources and taxpayer dollars more efficiently at both
the state and federal level.
Caps ensure that environmental goals are met. A cap that
represents significant reductions of emissions protects the
environment by reducing overall loadings. Consideration of local
concerns is important in conjunction with trading provisions.
Therefore, the National Energy Plan recommended that the
Administration's approach include appropriate measures to address
local concerns, such as the unlikely occurrence of an SO2 "hot
spot" or area of concentrated emissions. Significant reductions
will go a long way towards addressing local concerns. In addition,
EPA will be conducting modeling that will predict where emissions
reductions will occur. Under the Acid Rain cap and trade program,
we have not seen local hot spots because the highest emitters are
often the most cost-effective to control and therefore, the most
likely to control.
As I mentioned, EPA and the Administration are still in the
process of developing our proposal. Several guidelines are shaping
our efforts. These guidelines may provide a valuable basis as you
weigh the proposals before you. They will also guide our assessment
of other proposals, including S. 556. These principles are
structured to ensure consistency with the NEP objectives. The NEP
goals of increasing energy supplies, accelerating the protection
and improvement of the environment, and increasing our nation's
energy supply must be advanced. Towards that end, energy diversity,
the preservation of electricity generation and transmission
reliability, and improvement of energy
9 efficiency/energy intensity of the electric power industry
should be a key consideration. In particular, to prevent the
reoccurrence of energy shortages and price volatility, a diverse
mix of fuel sources should be maintained.


Specific Comments on S. 556 

We share the desire expressed in S. 556 to significantly reduce
and cap emissions of SO2, NOx and mercury from power generation. We
applaud your acknowledgment of market-based incentives,
particularly cap and trade systems, as a powerful tool in
environmental protection. In this way, S. 556 builds on successful
elements of the Clean Air Act.
We do, however, oppose S. 556 because of concerns with the bill
-- both with some provisions that are in the bill and with some
that are missing. We believe the emission reductions and timing in
the bill will be too costly for consumers and will endanger
national energy security. We believe the bill is missing some
provisions -- it should address the allocation scheme and
integration with existing programs. Finally, we oppose inclusion of
CO2 in this bill.
First, let me explain some of our specific concerns about the
SO2, NOx, and mercury provisions in the bill. We are concerned that
the significant emissions reductions are required too quickly. We
do not believe it is reasonable to expect all the control
technology installations to be completed in that time frame without
very high costs and electricity reliability problems. To meet these
deadlines, facilities may need to be taken off-line during critical
periods. Reliability problems could arise as large amounts of
capacity are taken out of service for extended periods of time to
install the control equipment necessary to meet the emissions
reduction requirements. The abbreviated time frame would force many
generators to make these retrofits simultaneously. This would
significantly reduce the amount of generating capacity available to
meet consumer' electrical needs.
We have not modeled the specific provisions in S. 556, but
useful information is provided by comparing the analyses EPA and
EIA conducted to respond to a request from Senators Smith,
Voinovich and Brownback with the analyses responding to a request
from Senators Jeffords and Lieberman. In the
Smith/Voinovich/Brownback analysis, when we analyzed SO2 and NOx
reduction levels similar to S. 556, mercury reduction levels more
modest than S. 556 and no CO2 reductions, we did not find
significant impacts on coal production or electricity prices.
However, in the analysis responding to the Jeffords/Lieberman
request that had NOx, SO2, mercury and CO2 reduction levels similar
to S. 556, we found significant ramifications: approximately a
20-30% decline of coal generation and a 30-50% increase in
electricity prices compared to the reference case (depending on
assumptions of energy technology penetration).
The 90% source-specific control for mercury is also problematic.
We have not seen anything that demonstrates that every coal-fired
power plant would be able to achieve 90% source-specific controls
for mercury by 2007, without considerable fuel switching, which
would be very disruptive to our economy and undermine energy
security. In addition, requiring the same level of reduction at
a
plant that emits 0.1 pounds of mercury and a plant that emits
2000 pounds of mercury - regardless of cost - is neither efficient
nor necessary.
We are also very concerned about the "outdated power plant"
provision. Requiring every plant over 30 years old to meet New
Source Performance Standards and New Source Review modification
requirements seems unnecessary and could undermine the benefits of
the cap and trade approach. Allowing sources to make reductions
where it is most economical to do so is one of the reasons cap and
trade programs should be less costly than command-and-control
programs that achieve the same or even fewer reductions. When you
have a hard cap, as you would under S. 556, requiring emission
reductions at a specific source does not reduce the overall level
of pollution, it just limits industry's flexibility about where to
make the reductions. Layering additional requirements, such as the
"outdated power plants" provision, on top of a cap and trade
program is very likely to increase costs without providing
significant environmental benefits.
Second, we have concerns about what is not in S. 556. Comparing
our experience on the Acid Rain Program with the NOx SIP Call and
the Section 126 petitions demonstrates the benefit of having
certain key issues decided by Congress rather than left to Agency
rulemakings. Congressional resolution of key issues simplifies
whatever Agency rulemaking is needed and decreases the
opportunities for the program to get tied up in protracted
litigation.
Perhaps the most important program element not addressed in the
bill is integration of this new program with the existing Clean Air
Act provisions. An effective market-based approach would make some
existing provisions of the Clean Air Act unnecessary. For example,
depending on the ultimate cap levels chosen by Congress, this type
of legislation would obviate the need for Best Available Retrofit
Technology requirements, mercury MACT, and new source review
case-by-case technology requirements for power generators.
Also missing from S. 556 is the scheme for allocating
allowances. Developing an allocation scheme requires answering
numerous questions. Should the allowances be auctioned off or be
handed out for free? If they are not auctioned, should they be
allocated based on heat input or electrical and steam output?
Should power generators that do not emit air pollutants (e.g.,
hydropower facilities) be given allowances? Should allowance
allocations be updated, and if so, how frequently? Should
allocations be fuel neutral? Imbedded in these and other questions
are important environmental and energy policy choices with
significant equity consequences. It may not be efficient for EPA to
make these choices in rulemaking.
There are other issues as well that this Committee should
consider, such as coordination with existing state and regional
programs like the Western Regional Air Partnership and the NOx
reduction programs in the east. The Committee may also wish to
consider provisions to track environmental progress to evaluate the
efficacy of the program this bill would establish.
Finally, the Administration strongly opposes including
reductions for CO2 in S. 556 or any multi-pollutant bill. Pursuing
sharp reductions in CO2 from the electricity generating sector
alone would cause a dramatic shift from coal to natural gas and
thus would run the risk of endangering national energy security,
substantially increasing energy prices and harming consumers.
The Administration will not support any legislation that would
cause a significant decline in our nation's ability to use coal as
a major source of current and future electricity. At the same time,
the Administration will not support any legislation that does not
enhance the cleanliness of coal-fired electricity generation and
promote a future for clean coal technologies. In short, the
Administration supports a clean coal policy as a critical component
of our nation's energy and environmental policies, recognizing that
other sources of energy also have a critical role to play.
Additionally, as Governor Whitman said when she testified before
you in July, including CO2 in this bill will slow down, if not
prevent, the consensus necessary for passage of legislation to
control multiple emissions from power plants. Governor Whitman and
I both believe consensus on the appropriate levels and timing for
reductions of NOx, SO2 and mercury is achievable relatively soon.
We should not delay the public health and environmental benefits
from reduction of these emissions while we wait for consensus to
develop on CO2.
We agree that climate change is a serious issue we need to
address. However, CO2 has never been regulated as a pollutant under
the Clean Air Act and does not pose any direct threat to human
health unlike NOx, SO2 and mercury. The current body of scientific
knowledge does not provide information regarding atmospheric
concentrations of CO2 or reduction levels necessary to prevent
dangerous interference with the climate system.
In April, the President convened a Cabinet-level policy review
of this issue and was provided with initial recommendations that he
accepted and announced on June 11. In that regard, the
Administration is implementing two major initiatives on climate
science and advanced energy and sequestration technologies. The
United States now spends $1.6 billion annually on climate science
to reduce uncertainties - a commitment unmatched by any other
nation. The "National Climate Change Technology Initiative" will
accelerate priority research and the application of advanced energy
and sequestration technologies, recognizing that the real answer to
addressing climate change in the long term lies in the development
and global introduction of such technologies in this century. And
the cabinet-level policy review is ongoing. Finally, as greenhouse
gas emissions are projected to grow exponentially in the developing
world in the next two decades, we must evaluate the costs of
imposing domestic reductions as a very high cost against
potentially low-cost opportunities for mitigating and sequestering
carbon emissions in the developing world.
We appreciate the role of S. 556 in generating important
discussions and emphasizing the importance of a new approach to
controlling emissions in the power sector. I look forward to the
additional hearings you will need to address these important issues
and to working with the Committee
to develop an approach that the President can support.
The history of Clean Air Act legislation is one of great
accomplishments made possible by bipartisan efforts. I thank you
for the opportunity to work with you to continue that great
tradition.



CONCLUSIONS OF THE 
FINANCIAL CRISIS INQUIRY COMMISSION

The Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission has been called upon to examine the financial 
and economic crisis that has gripped our country and explain its causes to the 
American people. We are keenly aware of the significance of our charge, given the 
economic damage that America has suffered in the wake of the greatest financial crisis 
since the Great Depression. 

Our task was first to determine what happened and how it happened so that we 
could understand why it happened. Here we present our conclusions. We encourage 
the American people to join us in making their own assessments based on the evidence 
gathered in our inquiry. If we do not learn from history, we are unlikely to fully 
recover from it. Some on Wall Street and in Washington with a stake in the status quo 
may be tempted to wipe from memory the events of this crisis, or to suggest that no 
one could have foreseen or prevented them. This report endeavors to expose the 
facts, identify responsibility, unravel myths, and help us understand how the crisis 
could have been avoided. It is an attempt to record history, not to rewrite it, nor allow 
it to be rewritten. 

To help our fellow citizens better understand this crisis and its causes, we also present 
specific conclusions at the end of chapters in Parts III, IV, and V of this report. 

The subject of this report is of no small consequence to this nation. The profound 
events of 2007 and 2008 were neither bumps in the road nor an accentuated dip in 
the financial and business cycles we have come to expect in a free market economic 
system. This was a fundamental disruptiona financial upheaval, if you willthat 
wreaked havoc in communities and neighborhoods across this country. 

As this report goes to print, there are more than 26 million Americans who are 
out of work, cannot find full-time work, or have given up looking for work. About 
four million families have lost their homes to foreclosure and another four and a half 
million have slipped into the foreclosure process or are seriously behind on their 
mortgage payments. Nearly $11 trillion in household wealth has vanished, with retirement 
accounts and life savings swept away. Businesses, large and small, have felt 
the sting of a deep recession. There is much anger about what has transpired, and justifiably 
so. Many people who abided by all the rules now find themselves out of work 
and uncertain about their future prospects. The collateral damage of this crisis has 
been real people and real communities. The impacts of this crisis are likely to be felt 
for a generation. And the nation faces no easy path to renewed economic strength. 

Like so many Americans, we began our exploration with our own views and some 
preliminary knowledge about how the worlds strongest financial system came to the 
brink of collapse. Even at the time of our appointment to this independent panel, 
much had already been written and said about the crisis. Yet all of us have been 
deeply affected by what we have learned in the course of our inquiry. We have been at 
various times fascinated, surprised, and even shocked by what we saw, heard, and 
read. Ours has been a journey of revelation. 

Much attention over the past two years has been focused on the decisions by the 
federal government to provide massive financial assistance to stabilize the financial 
system and rescue large financial institutions that were deemed too systemically important 
to fail. Those decisionsand the deep emotions surrounding themwill be 
debated long into the future. But our mission was to ask and answer this central question: 
how did it come to pass that in 2008 our nation was forced to choose between two 
stark and painful alternativeseither risk the total collapse of our financial system 
and economy or inject trillions of taxpayer dollars into the financial system and an 
array of companies, as millions of Americans still lost their jobs, their savings, and 
their homes? 

In this report, we detail the events of the crisis. But a simple summary, as we see 
it, is useful at the outset. While the vulnerabilities that created the potential for crisis 
were years in the making, it was the collapse of the housing bubblefueled by 
low interest rates, easy and available credit, scant regulation, and toxic mortgages 
that was the spark that ignited a string of events, which led to a full-blown crisis in 
the fall of 2008. Trillions of dollars in risky mortgages had become embedded 
throughout the financial system, as mortgage-related securities were packaged, 
repackaged, and sold to investors around the world. When the bubble burst, hundreds 
of billions of dollars in losses in mortgages and mortgage-related securities 
shook markets as well as financial institutions that had significant exposures to 
those mortgages and had borrowed heavily against them. This happened not just in 
the United States but around the world. The losses were magnified by derivatives 
such as synthetic securities. 

The crisis reached seismic proportions in September 2008 with the failure of 
Lehman Brothers and the impending collapse of the insurance giant American International 
Group (AIG). Panic fanned by a lack of transparency of the balance sheets of major 
financial institutions, coupled with a tangle of interconnections among institutions 
perceived to be too big to fail, caused the credit markets to seize up. Trading ground 
to a halt. The stock market plummeted. The economy plunged into a deep recession. 

The financial system we examined bears little resemblance to that of our parents 
generation. The changes in the past three decades alone have been remarkable. The 
financial markets have become increasingly globalized. Technology has transformed 
the efficiency, speed, and complexity of financial instruments and transactions. There 
is broader access to and lower costs of financing than ever before. And the financial 
sector itself has become a much more dominant force in our economy. 

From 1978 to 2007, the amount of debt held by the financial sector soared from 
$3 trillion to $36 trillion, more than doubling as a share of gross domestic product. 
The very nature of many Wall Street firms changedfrom relatively staid private 
partnerships to publicly traded corporations taking greater and more diverse kinds of 
risks. By 2005, the 10 largest U.S. commercial banks held 55% of the industrys assets, 
more than double the level held in 1990. On the eve of the crisis in 2006, financial 
sector profits constituted 27% of all corporate profits in the United States, up from 
15% in 1980. Understanding this transformation has been critical to the Commissions 
analysis. 

Now to our major findings and conclusions, which are based on the facts contained 
in this report: they are offered with the hope that lessons may be learned to 
help avoid future catastrophe. 

We conclude this financial crisis was avoidable. The crisis was the result of human 
action and inaction, not of Mother Nature or computer models gone haywire. The 
captains of finance and the public stewards of our financial system ignored warnings 
and failed to question, understand, and manage evolving risks within a system essential 
to the well-being of the American public. Theirs was a big miss, not a stumble. 
While the business cycle cannot be repealed, a crisis of this magnitude need not have 
occurred. To paraphrase Shakespeare, the fault lies not in the stars, but in us. 
Despite the expressed view of many on Wall Street and in Washington that the 
crisis could not have been foreseen or avoided, there were warning signs. The tragedy 
was that they were ignored or discounted. There was an explosion in risky subprime 
lending and securitization, an unsustainable rise in housing prices, widespread reports 
of egregious and predatory lending practices, dramatic increases in household 
mortgage debt, and exponential growth in financial firms trading activities, unregulated 
derivatives, and short-term repo lending markets, among many other red 
flags. Yet there was pervasive permissiveness; little meaningful action was taken to 
quell the threats in a timely manner. 

The prime example is the Federal Reserves pivotal failure to stem the flow of toxic 
mortgages, which it could have done by setting prudent mortgage-lending standards. 
The Federal Reserve was the one entity empowered to do so and it did not. The 
record of our examination is replete with evidence of other failures: financial institutions 
made, bought, and sold mortgage securities they never examined, did not care 
to examine, or knew to be defective; firms depended on tens of billions of dollars of 
borrowing that had to be renewed each and every night, secured by subprime mortgage 
securities; and major firms and investors blindly relied on credit rating agencies 
as their arbiters of risk. What else could one expect on a highway where there were 
neither speed limits nor neatly painted lines? 

We conclude widespread failures in financial regulation and supervision 
proved devastating to the stability of the nations financial markets. The sentries 
were not at their posts, in no small part due to the widely accepted faith in the self-
correcting nature of the markets and the ability of financial institutions to effectively 
police themselves. More than 30 years of deregulation and reliance on self-regulation 
by financial institutions, championed by former Federal Reserve chairman Alan 
Greenspan and others, supported by successive administrations and Congresses, and 
actively pushed by the powerful financial industry at every turn, had stripped away 
key safeguards, which could have helped avoid catastrophe. This approach had 
opened up gaps in oversight of critical areas with trillions of dollars at risk, such as 
the shadow banking system and over-the-counter derivatives markets. In addition, 
the government permitted financial firms to pick their preferred regulators in what 
became a race to the weakest supervisor. 
Yet we do not accept the view that regulators lacked the power to protect the financial 
system. They had ample power in many arenas and they chose not to use it. 
To give just three examples: the Securities and Exchange Commission could have required 
more capital and halted risky practices at the big investment banks. It did not. 
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York and other regulators could have clamped 
down on Citigroups excesses in the run-up to the crisis. They did not. Policy makers 
and regulators could have stopped the runaway mortgage securitization train. They 
did not. In case after case after case, regulators continued to rate the institutions they 
oversaw as safe and sound even in the face of mounting troubles, often downgrading 
them just before their collapse. And where regulators lacked authority, they could 
have sought it. Too often, they lacked the political willin a political and ideological 
environment that constrained itas well as the fortitude to critically challenge the 
institutions and the entire system they were entrusted to oversee. 

Changes in the regulatory system occurred in many instances as financial markets 
evolved. But as the report will show, the financial industry itself played a key 
role in weakening regulatory constraints on institutions, markets, and products. It 
did not surprise the Commission that an industry of such wealth and power would 
exert pressure on policy makers and regulators. From 1999 to 2008, the financial 
sector expended $2.7 billion in reported federal lobbying expenses; individuals and 
political action committees in the sector made more than $1 billion in campaign 
contributions. What troubled us was the extent to which the nation was deprived of 
the necessary strength and independence of the oversight necessary to safeguard 
financial stability. 

We conclude dramatic failures of corporate governance and risk management 
at many systemically important financial institutions were a key cause of this crisis. 
There was a view that instincts for self-preservation inside major financial firms 
would shield them from fatal risk-taking without the need for a steady regulatory 
hand, which, the firms argued, would stifle innovation. Too many of these institutions 
acted recklessly, taking on too much risk, with too little capital, and with too 
much dependence on short-term funding. In many respects, this reflected a fundamental
change in these institutions, particularly the large investment banks and bank 
holding companies, which focused their activities increasingly on risky trading activities 
that produced hefty profits. They took on enormous exposures in acquiring and 
supporting subprime lenders and creating, packaging, repackaging, and selling trillions 
of dollars in mortgage-related securities, including synthetic financial products. 
Like Icarus, they never feared flying ever closer to the sun. 

Many of these institutions grew aggressively through poorly executed acquisition 
and integration strategies that made effective management more challenging. The 
CEO of Citigroup told the Commission that a $40 billion position in highly rated 
mortgage securities would not in any way have excited my attention, and the cohead 
of Citigroups investment bank said he spent a small fraction of 1% of his time 
on those securities. In this instance, too big to fail meant too big to manage. 

Financial institutions and credit rating agencies embraced mathematical models 
as reliable predictors of risks, replacing judgment in too many instances. Too often, 
risk management became risk justification. 

Compensation systemsdesigned in an environment of cheap money, intense 
competition, and light regulationtoo often rewarded the quick deal, the short-term 
gainwithout proper consideration of long-term consequences. Often, those systems 
encouraged the big betwhere the payoff on the upside could be huge and the downside 
limited. This was the case up and down the linefrom the corporate boardroom 
to the mortgage broker on the street. 

Our examination revealed stunning instances of governance breakdowns and irresponsibility. 
You will read, among other things, about AIG senior managements ignorance 
of the terms and risks of the companys $79 billion derivatives exposure to 
mortgage-related securities; Fannie Maes quest for bigger market share, profits, and 
bonuses, which led it to ramp up its exposure to risky loans and securities as the housing 
market was peaking; and the costly surprise when Merrill Lynchs top management 
realized that the company held $55 billion in super-senior and supposedly 
super-safe mortgage-related securities that resulted in billions of dollars in losses. 

We conclude a combination of excessive borrowing, risky investments, and lack 
of transparency put the financial system on a collision course with crisis. Clearly, 
this vulnerability was related to failures of corporate governance and regulation, but 
it is significant enough by itself to warrant our attention here. 
In the years leading up to the crisis, too many financial institutions, as well as too 
many households, borrowed to the hilt, leaving them vulnerable to financial distress 
or ruin if the value of their investments declined even modestly. For example, as of 
2007, the five major investment banksBear Stearns, Goldman Sachs, Lehman 
Brothers, Merrill Lynch, and Morgan Stanleywere operating with extraordinarily 
thin capital. By one measure, their leverage ratios were as high as 40 to 1, meaning for 
every $40 in assets, there was only $1 in capital to cover losses. Less than a 3% drop in 
asset values could wipe out a firm. To make matters worse, much of their borrowing 
was short-term, in the overnight marketmeaning the borrowing had to be renewed 
each and every day. For example, at the end of 2007, Bear Stearns had $11.8 billion in 
equity and $383.6 billion in liabilities and was borrowing as much as $70 billion in 
the overnight market. It was the equivalent of a small business with $50,000 in equity 
borrowing $1.6 million, with $296,750 of that due each and every day. One cant 
really ask What were they thinking? when it seems that too many of them were 
thinking alike. 

And the leverage was often hiddenin derivatives positions, in off-balance-sheet 
entities, and through window dressing of financial reports available to the investing 
public. 

The kings of leverage were Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two behemoth government-
sponsored enterprises (GSEs). For example, by the end of 2007, Fannies 
and Freddies combined leverage ratio, including loans they owned and guaranteed, 
stood at 75 to 1. 

But financial firms were not alone in the borrowing spree: from 2001 to 2007, national 
mortgage debt almost doubled, and the amount of mortgage debt per household 
rose more than 63% from $91,500 to $149,500, even while wages were 
essentially stagnant. When the housing downturn hit, heavily indebted financial 
firms and families alike were walloped. 

The heavy debt taken on by some financial institutions was exacerbated by the 
risky assets they were acquiring with that debt. As the mortgage and real estate markets 
churned out riskier and riskier loans and securities, many financial institutions 
loaded up on them. By the end of 2007, Lehman had amassed $111 billion in commercial 
and residential real estate holdings and securities, which was almost twice 
what it held just two years before, and more than four times its total equity. And 
again, the risk wasnt being taken on just by the big financial firms, but by families, 
too. Nearly one in 10 mortgage borrowers in 2005 and 2006 took out option ARM 
loans, which meant they could choose to make payments so low that their mortgage 
balances rose every month. 

Within the financial system, the dangers of this debt were magnified because 
transparency was not required or desired. Massive, short-term borrowing, combined 
with obligations unseen by others in the market, heightened the chances the system 
could rapidly unravel. In the early part of the 20th century, we erected a series of protections
the Federal Reserve as a lender of last resort, federal deposit insurance, ample 
regulationsto provide a bulwark against the panics that had regularly plagued 
Americas banking system in the 19th century. Yet, over the past 30-plus years, we 
permitted the growth of a shadow banking systemopaque and laden with short-
term debtthat rivaled the size of the traditional banking system. Key components 
of the marketfor example, the multitrillion-dollar repo lending market, off-balance-
sheet entities, and the use of over-the-counter derivativeswere hidden from 
view, without the protections we had constructed to prevent financial meltdowns. We 
had a 21st-century financial system with 19th-century safeguards. 

When the housing and mortgage markets cratered, the lack of transparency, the 
extraordinary debt loads, the short-term loans, and the risky assets all came home to 
roost. What resulted was panic. We had reaped what we had sown. 

We conclude the government was ill prepared for the crisis, and its inconsistent 
response added to the uncertainty and panic in the financial markets. As part of 
our charge, it was appropriate to review government actions taken in response to the 
developing crisis, not just those policies or actions that preceded it, to determine if 
any of those responses contributed to or exacerbated the crisis. 
As our report shows, key policy makersthe Treasury Department, the Federal 
Reserve Board, and the Federal Reserve Bank of New Yorkwho were best positioned 
to watch over our markets were ill prepared for the events of 2007 and 2008. 
Other agencies were also behind the curve. They were hampered because they did 
not have a clear grasp of the financial system they were charged with overseeing, particularly 
as it had evolved in the years leading up to the crisis. This was in no small 
measure due to the lack of transparency in key markets. They thought risk had been 
diversified when, in fact, it had been concentrated. Time and again, from the spring 
of 2007 on, policy makers and regulators were caught off guard as the contagion 
spread, responding on an ad hoc basis with specific programs to put fingers in the 
dike. There was no comprehensive and strategic plan for containment, because they 
lacked a full understanding of the risks and interconnections in the financial markets. 
Some regulators have conceded this error. We had allowed the system to race 
ahead of our ability to protect it. 

While there was some awareness of, or at least a debate about, the housing bubble, 
the record reflects that senior public officials did not recognize that a bursting of the 
bubble could threaten the entire financial system. Throughout the summer of 2007, 
both Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and Treasury Secretary Henry Paul-
son offered public assurances that the turmoil in the subprime mortgage markets 
would be contained. When Bear Stearnss hedge funds, which were heavily invested 
in mortgage-related securities, imploded in June 2007, the Federal Reserve discussed 
the implications of the collapse. Despite the fact that so many other funds were exposed 
to the same risks as those hedge funds, the Bear Stearns funds were thought to 
be relatively unique. Days before the collapse of Bear Stearns in March 2008, SEC 
Chairman Christopher Cox expressed comfort about the capital cushions at the big 
investment banks. It was not until August 2008, just weeks before the government 
takeover of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, that the Treasury Department understood 
the full measure of the dire financial conditions of those two institutions. And just a 
month before Lehmans collapse, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York was still 
seeking information on the exposures created by Lehmans more than 900,000 derivatives 
contracts. 

In addition, the governments inconsistent handling of major financial institutions 
during the crisisthe decision to rescue Bear Stearns and then to place Fannie Mae 
and Freddie Mac into conservatorship, followed by its decision not to save Lehman 
Brothers and then to save AIGincreased uncertainty and panic in the market. 

In making these observations, we deeply respect and appreciate the efforts made 
by Secretary Paulson, Chairman Bernanke, and Timothy Geithner, formerly president 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and now treasury secretary, and so 
many others who labored to stabilize our financial system and our economy in the 
most chaotic and challenging of circumstances. 

We conclude there was a systemic breakdown in accountability and ethics. The 
integrity of our financial markets and the publics trust in those markets are essential 
to the economic well-being of our nation. The soundness and the sustained prosperity 
of the financial system and our economy rely on the notions of fair dealing, responsibility, 
and transparency. In our economy, we expect businesses and individuals 
to pursue profits, at the same time that they produce products and services of quality 
and conduct themselves well. 
Unfortunatelyas has been the case in past speculative booms and bustswe 
witnessed an erosion of standards of responsibility and ethics that exacerbated the financial 
crisis. This was not universal, but these breaches stretched from the ground 
level to the corporate suites. They resulted not only in significant financial consequences 
but also in damage to the trust of investors, businesses, and the public in the 
financial system. 

For example, our examination found, according to one measure, that the percentage 
of borrowers who defaulted on their mortgages within just a matter of months 
after taking a loan nearly doubled from the summer of 2006 to late 2007. This data 
indicates they likely took out mortgages that they never had the capacity or intention 
to pay. You will read about mortgage brokers who were paid yield spread premiums 
by lenders to put borrowers into higher-cost loans so they would get bigger fees, often 
never disclosed to borrowers. The report catalogues the rising incidence of mortgage 
fraud, which flourished in an environment of collapsing lending standards and 
lax regulation. The number of suspicious activity reportsreports of possible financial 
crimes filed by depository banks and their affiliatesrelated to mortgage fraud 
grew 20-fold between 1996 and 2005 and then more than doubled again between 
2005 and 2009. One study places the losses resulting from fraud on mortgage loans 
made between 2005 and 2007 at $112 billion. 

Lenders made loans that they knew borrowers could not afford and that could 
cause massive losses to investors in mortgage securities. As early as September 2004, 
Countrywide executives recognized that many of the loans they were originating 
could result in catastrophic consequences. Less than a year later, they noted that 
certain high-risk loans they were making could result not only in foreclosures but 
also in financial and reputational catastrophe for the firm. But they did not stop. 

And the report documents that major financial institutions ineffectively sampled 
loans they were purchasing to package and sell to investors. They knew a significant 
percentage of the sampled loans did not meet their own underwriting standards or 
those of the originators. Nonetheless, they sold those securities to investors. The 
Commissions review of many prospectuses provided to investors found that this critical 
information was not disclosed. 

THESE CONCLUSIONS must be viewed in the context of human nature and individual 
and societal responsibility. First, to pin this crisis on mortal flaws like greed and 
hubris would be simplistic. It was the failure to account for human weakness that is 
relevant to this crisis. 

Second, we clearly believe the crisis was a result of human mistakes, misjudgments, 
and misdeeds that resulted in systemic failures for which our nation has paid 
dearly. As you read this report, you will see that specific firms and individuals acted 
irresponsibly. Yet a crisis of this magnitude cannot be the work of a few bad actors, 
and such was not the case here. At the same time, the breadth of this crisis does not 
mean that everyone is at fault; many firms and individuals did not participate in the 
excesses that spawned disaster. 

We do place special responsibility with the public leaders charged with protecting 
our financial system, those entrusted to run our regulatory agencies, and the chief executives 
of companies whose failures drove us to crisis. These individuals sought and 
accepted positions of significant responsibility and obligation. Tone at the top does 
matter and, in this instance, we were let down. No one said no. 

But as a nation, we must also accept responsibility for what we permitted to occur. 
Collectively, but certainly not unanimously, we acquiesced to or embraced a system, 
a set of policies and actions, that gave rise to our present predicament. 



THIS REPORT DESCRIBES THE EVENTS and the system that propelled our nation toward 
crisis. The complex machinery of our financial markets has many essential 
gearssome of which played a critical role as the crisis developed and deepened. 
Here we render our conclusions about specific components of the system that we believe 
contributed significantly to the financial meltdown. 

We conclude collapsing mortgage-lending standards and the mortgage securitization 
pipeline lit and spread the flame of contagion and crisis. When housing 
prices fell and mortgage borrowers defaulted, the lights began to dim on Wall Street. 
This report catalogues the corrosion of mortgage-lending standards and the securitization 
pipeline that transported toxic mortgages from neighborhoods across America 
to investors around the globe. 
Many mortgage lenders set the bar so low that lenders simply took eager borrowers 
qualifications on faith, often with a willful disregard for a borrowers ability to 
pay. Nearly one-quarter of all mortgages made in the first half of 2005 were interest-
only loans. During the same year, 68% of option ARM loans originated by Countrywide 
and Washington Mutual had low- or no-documentation requirements. 

These trends were not secret. As irresponsible lending, including predatory and 
fraudulent practices, became more prevalent, the Federal Reserve and other regulators 
and authorities heard warnings from many quarters. Yet the Federal Reserve 
neglected its mission to ensure the safety and soundness of the nations banking and 
financial system and to protect the credit rights of consumers. It failed to build the 
retaining wall before it was too late. And the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency 
and the Office of Thrift Supervision, caught up in turf wars, preempted state 
regulators from reining in abuses. 

While many of these mortgages were kept on banks books, the bigger money came 
from global investors who clamored to put their cash into newly created mortgage-related 
securities. It appeared to financial institutions, investors, and regulators alike that 
risk had been conquered: the investors held highly rated securities they thought were 
sure to perform; the banks thought they had taken the riskiest loans off their books; 
and regulators saw firms making profits and borrowing costs reduced. But each step in 
the mortgage securitization pipeline depended on the next step to keep demand going. 
From the speculators who flipped houses to the mortgage brokers who scouted 
the loans, to the lenders who issued the mortgages, to the financial firms that created 
the mortgage-backed securities, collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), CDOs 
squared, and synthetic CDOs: no one in this pipeline of toxic mortgages had enough 
skin in the game. They all believed they could off-load their risks on a moments notice 
to the next person in line. They were wrong. When borrowers stopped making 
mortgage payments, the lossesamplified by derivativesrushed through the 
pipeline. As it turned out, these losses were concentrated in a set of systemically important 
financial institutions. 

In the end, the system that created millions of mortgages so efficiently has proven 
to be difficult to unwind. Its complexity has erected barriers to modifying mortgages 
so families can stay in their homes and has created further uncertainty about the 
health of the housing market and financial institutions. 

We conclude over-the-counter derivatives contributed significantly to this 
crisis. The enactment of legislation in 2000 to ban the regulation by both the federal 
and state governments of over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives was a key turning 
point in the march toward the financial crisis. 
From financial firms to corporations, to farmers, and to investors, derivatives 
have been used to hedge against, or speculate on, changes in prices, rates, or indices 
or even on events such as the potential defaults on debts. Yet, without any oversight, 
OTC derivatives rapidly spiraled out of control and out of sight, growing to $673 trillion 
in notional amount. This report explains the uncontrolled leverage; lack of 
transparency, capital, and collateral requirements; speculation; interconnections 
among firms; and concentrations of risk in this market. 

OTC derivatives contributed to the crisis in three significant ways. First, one type 
of derivativecredit default swaps (CDS)fueled the mortgage securitization 
pipeline. CDS were sold to investors to protect against the default or decline in value 
of mortgage-related securities backed by risky loans. Companies sold protectionto 
the tune of $79 billion, in AIGs caseto investors in these newfangled mortgage securities, 
helping to launch and expand the market and, in turn, to further fuel the 
housing bubble. 

Second, CDS were essential to the creation of synthetic CDOs. These synthetic 
CDOs were merely bets on the performance of real mortgage-related securities. They 
amplified the losses from the collapse of the housing bubble by allowing multiple bets 
on the same securities and helped spread them throughout the financial system. 
Goldman Sachs alone packaged and sold $73 billion in synthetic CDOs from July 1, 
2004, to May 31, 2007. Synthetic CDOs created by Goldman referenced more than 
3,400 mortgage securities, and 610 of them were referenced at least twice. This is 
apart from how many times these securities may have been referenced in synthetic 
CDOs created by other firms. 

Finally, when the housing bubble popped and crisis followed, derivatives were in 
the center of the storm. AIG, which had not been required to put aside capital reserves 
as a cushion for the protection it was selling, was bailed out when it could not 
meet its obligations. The government ultimately committed more than $180 billion 
because of concerns that AIGs collapse would trigger cascading losses throughout 
the global financial system. In addition, the existence of millions of derivatives contracts 
of all types between systemically important financial institutionsunseen and 
unknown in this unregulated marketadded to uncertainty and escalated panic, 
helping to precipitate government assistance to those institutions. 

We conclude the failures of credit rating agencies were essential cogs in the 
wheel of financial destruction. The three credit rating agencies were key enablers of 
the financial meltdown. The mortgage-related securities at the heart of the crisis 
could not have been marketed and sold without their seal of approval. Investors relied 
on them, often blindly. In some cases, they were obligated to use them, or regulatory 
capital standards were hinged on them. This crisis could not have happened 
without the rating agencies. Their ratings helped the market soar and their downgrades 
through 2007 and 2008 wreaked havoc across markets and firms. 
In our report, you will read about the breakdowns at Moodys, examined by the 
Commission as a case study. From 2000 to 2007, Moodys rated nearly 45,000 
mortgage-related securities as triple-A. This compares with six private-sector companies 
in the United States that carried this coveted rating in early 2010. In 2006 
alone, Moodys put its triple-A stamp of approval on 30 mortgage-related securities 
every working day. The results were disastrous: 83% of the mortgage securities rated 
triple-A that year ultimately were downgraded. 

You will also read about the forces at work behind the breakdowns at Moodys, including 
the flawed computer models, the pressure from financial firms that paid for 
the ratings, the relentless drive for market share, the lack of resources to do the job 
despite record profits, and the absence of meaningful public oversight. And you will 
see that without the active participation of the rating agencies, the market for mortgage-
related securities could not have been what it became. 



THERE ARE MANY COMPETING VIEWS as to the causes of this crisis. In this regard, the 
Commission has endeavored to address key questions posed to us. Here we discuss 
three: capital availability and excess liquidity, the role of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac 
(the GSEs), and government housing policy. 

First, as to the matter of excess liquidity: in our report, we outline monetary policies 
and capital flows during the years leading up to the crisis. Low interest rates, 
widely available capital, and international investors seeking to put their money in real 
estate assets in the United States were prerequisites for the creation of a credit bubble. 
Those conditions created increased risks, which should have been recognized by 
market participants, policy makers, and regulators. However, it is the Commissions 
conclusion that excess liquidity did not need to cause a crisis. It was the failures outlined 
aboveincluding the failure to effectively rein in excesses in the mortgage and 
financial marketsthat were the principal causes of this crisis. Indeed, the availability 
of well-priced capitalboth foreign and domesticis an opportunity for economic 
expansion and growth if encouraged to flow in productive directions. 

Second, we examined the role of the GSEs, with Fannie Mae serving as the Commissions 
case study in this area. These government-sponsored enterprises had a 
deeply flawed business model as publicly traded corporations with the implicit backing 
of and subsidies from the federal government and with a public mission. Their 
$5 trillion mortgage exposure and market position were significant. In 2005 and 
2006, they decided to ramp up their purchase and guarantee of risky mortgages, just 
as the housing market was peaking. They used their political power for decades to 
ward off effective regulation and oversightspending $164 million on lobbying from 
1998 to 2008. They suffered from many of the same failures of corporate governance 
and risk management as the Commission discovered in other financial firms. 
Through the third quarter of 2010, the Treasury Department had provided $151 billion 
in financial support to keep them afloat. 

We conclude that these two entities contributed to the crisis, but were not a primary 
cause. Importantly, GSE mortgage securities essentially maintained their value 
throughout the crisis and did not contribute to the significant financial firm losses 
that were central to the financial crisis. 

The GSEs participated in the expansion of subprime and other risky mortgages, 
but they followed rather than led Wall Street and other lenders in the rush for fools 
gold. They purchased the highest rated non-GSE mortgage-backed securities and 
their participation in this market added helium to the housing balloon, but their purchases 
never represented a majority of the market. Those purchases represented 10.5% 
of non-GSE subprime mortgage-backed securities in 2001, with the share rising to 
40% in 2004, and falling back to 28% by 2008. They relaxed their underwriting standards 
to purchase or guarantee riskier loans and related securities in order to meet 
stock market analysts and investors expectations for growth, to regain market share, 
and to ensure generous compensation for their executives and employeesjustifying 
their activities on the broad and sustained public policy support for homeownership. 

The Commission also probed the performance of the loans purchased or guaranteed 
by Fannie and Freddie. While they generated substantial losses, delinquency 
rates for GSE loans were substantially lower than loans securitized by other financial 
firms. For example, data compiled by the Commission for a subset of borrowers with 
similar credit scores--scores below 600--show that by the end of 2008, GSE mortgages 
were far less likely to be seriously delinquent than were non-GSE securitized 
mortgages: 6.2% versus 28.3%. 

We also studied at length how the Department of Housing and Urban Developments 
(HUDs) affordable housing goals for the GSEs affected their investment in 
risky mortgages. Based on the evidence and interviews with dozens of individuals involved 
in this subject area, we determined these goals only contributed marginally to 
Fannies and Freddies participation in those mortgages. 

Finally, as to the matter of whether government housing policies were a primary 
cause of the crisis: for decades, government policy has encouraged homeownership 
through a set of incentives, assistance programs, and mandates. These policies were 
put in place and promoted by several administrations and Congressesindeed, both 
Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush set aggressive goals to increase home-
ownership. 

In conducting our inquiry, we took a careful look at HUDs affordable housing 
goals, as noted above, and the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA). The CRA was 
enacted in 1977 to combat redlining by banksthe practice of denying credit to individuals 
and businesses in certain neighborhoods without regard to their creditworthiness. 
The CRA requires banks and savings and loans to lend, invest, and provide 
services to the communities from which they take deposits, consistent with bank 
safety and soundness. 

The Commission concludes the CRA was not a significant factor in subprime lending 
or the crisis. Many subprime lenders were not subject to the CRA. Research indicates
only 6% of high-cost loansa proxy for subprime loanshad any connection to 
the law. Loans made by CRA-regulated lenders in the neighborhoods in which they 
were required to lend were half as likely to default as similar loans made in the same 
neighborhoods by independent mortgage originators not subject to the law. 

Nonetheless, we make the following observation about government housing policies
they failed in this respect: As a nation, we set aggressive homeownership goals 
with the desire to extend credit to families previously denied access to the financial 
markets. Yet the government failed to ensure that the philosophy of opportunity was 
being matched by the practical realities on the ground. Witness again the failure of 
the Federal Reserve and other regulators to rein in irresponsible lending. Homeownership 
peaked in the spring of 2004 and then began to decline. From that point on, 
the talk of opportunity was tragically at odds with the reality of a financial disaster in 
the making. 



WHEN THIS COMMISSION began its work 18 months ago, some imagined that the 
events of 2008 and their consequences would be well behind us by the time we issued 
this report. Yet more than two years after the federal government intervened in an 
unprecedented manner in our financial markets, our country finds itself still grappling 
with the aftereffects of the calamity. Our financial system is, in many respects, 
still unchanged from what existed on the eve of the crisis. Indeed, in the wake of the 
crisis, the U.S. financial sector is now more concentrated than ever in the hands of a 
few large, systemically significant institutions. 

While we have not been charged with making policy recommendations, the very 
purpose of our report has been to take stock of what happened so we can plot a new 
course. In our inquiry, we found dramatic breakdowns of corporate governance, 
profound lapses in regulatory oversight, and near fatal flaws in our financial system. 
We also found that a series of choices and actions led us toward a catastrophe for 
which we were ill prepared. These are serious matters that must be addressed and 
resolved to restore faith in our financial markets, to avoid the next crisis, and to rebuild 
a system of capital that provides the foundation for a new era of broadly 
shared prosperity. 

The greatest tragedy would be to accept the refrain that no one could have seen 
this coming and thus nothing could have been done. If we accept this notion, it will 
happen again. 

This report should not be viewed as the end of the nations examination of this 
crisis. There is still much to learn, much to investigate, and much to fix. 

This is our collective responsibility. It falls to us to make different choices if we 
want different results. 






REPORT TO THE CONGRESS:
AUTHORITY OF THE UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE TO INTRODUCE NEW
PRODUCTS AND SERVICES AND TO ENTER INTO RATE AND SERVICE AGREEMENTS
WITH INDIVIDUAL CUSTOMERS OR GROUPS OF CUSTOMERS

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA POSTAL RATE COMMISSION


February 11, 2002
POSTAL RATE COMMISSION Memorandum
February 11, 2002
TO: Senate Committee on Appropriations House Committee on
Appropriations Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs House
Committee on Government Reform
SUBJECT: Report to the Congress on Authority of the United
States Postal Service to Introduce Innovative Products and Services
and to Enter into Rate and Service Agreements
In accordance with the direction of the Joint Committee of
Conference concerning the 2002 appropriation for the Postal
Service, the Postal Rate Commission hereby transmits its report on
the scope of existing authority of the United States Postal Service
under current postal laws and regulations to introduce new products
and services and to enter into negotiated service agreements with
individual customers or groups of customers.
RESPECTFULLY SUBMITTED,
George A. Omas, Chairman
Ruth Y. Goldway, Vice Chairman
Dana B. Covington, Sr., Commissioner
REPORT TO THE CONGRESS:

APPENDIX
Postal Service Product Innovations and Special-Purpose Mail
Classification Changes Reviewed by the Postal Rate Commission Since
January 1, 2000

I. SUMMARY
This report provides an analysis of the United States Postal
Service's current legal authority to: (1) introduce and provide new
products and services; and (2) enter into negotiated service
agreements with individual customers. This report also includes
background on the use of such authority within the past two
years.
The Commission's analysis of existing postal law yields the
following conclusions:



The Postal Reorganization Act of 1970 gives the United
States Postal Service a clear mandate to innovate by developing
effective and efficient services adapted to the needs of the
Nation's mail users.



The mechanism for implementing innovations in domestic
mail services is the joint authority shared by the Postal Service
and the Postal Rate Commission to adopt new mail classifications
under 39 U.S.C.  3623 through 3625.



The Postal Rate Commission has developed specialized
procedural rules that provide for expeditious consideration of
proposed service innovations in a manner consistent with the due
process rights of other interested persons.



Negotiated Service Agreements (NSAs) or "niche
classifications" are rate and service adjustments arranged by the
Postal Service and potential users that are legally permissible,
provided that:


 The proposal is reviewed in a public proceeding, as the
Reorganization Act requires;
 The agreed-upon rate and service changes will work to the
mutual benefit of mail users and the postal system as a whole;
and
 The negotiated rate-and-service package is made available on
the same terms to other potential users willing to meet the same
conditions of service.


II. BACKGROUND AND SCOPE OF ANALYSIS
In joint deliberations on appropriations for the United States
Postal Service and certain other agencies and departments for
Fiscal Year 2002, the committee of conference directed both the
Postal Service and the Postal Rate Commission to prepare reports on
particular areas of the Postal Service's authority under existing
law.1 Specifically, the conferees directed:
both the United States Postal Service and the Postal Rate
Commission to independently report, 90 days after enactment of this
Act, on the scope of existing authority of the US Postal Service,
under title 39, United States Code, and title 39, Code of Federal
Regulations, to introduce and provide new products and services
(including the introduction and provision of new products and
service on an experimental or market test basis) and to enter into
negotiated service agreements with individual customers or groups
of customers. Such reports shall include background on the use of
such authority within the past 24 months and shall be provided to
the Committees on Appropriations, the Senate Committee on
Governmental Affairs, and the House Committee on Government
Reform.
H. R. CONF. REP. NO. 107-253, 107th Cong., 1st Sess. 59 (2001).
As directed, the Commission submits this report to the Senate and
House of Representatives Committees on Appropriations, the Senate
Committee on Governmental Affairs, and the House Committee on
Government Reform.
The report is presented in three sections. The first outlines
the Postal Service's current legal authority to introduce new
products and services, the role of the Postal Rate Commission in
that process, and the procedural mechanisms available for expedited
approval of such innovations. The second section addresses the same
topics in connection with Negotiated Service Agreements (NSAs),
so-called "niche classifications," which are special service and
rate arrangements negotiated between the Postal Service and a
particular mailer or groups of mailers with features tailored to
their use of the postal system. Finally, an appendix to the report
summarizes recent
1 The amended bill produced by the conference committee was
enacted as Pub. L. No. 107-67, 115 Stat. 514 (2001).
Commission proceedings in which the Postal Service has sought to
introduce service innovations-some of them customized for
particular groups of mailers-on an expedited basis.
III. POSTAL SERVICE AUTHORITY TO DEVELOP, INTRODUCE AND PROVIDE
NEW PRODUCTS AND SERVICES


A. Innovation under the Postal Reorganization Act
While pre-existing law afforded limited opportunities for postal
innovation,2 the Postal Reorganization Act of 1970 gave the
newly-created United States Postal Service a clear mandate to
innovate by developing effective and efficient services adapted to
the needs of the Nation's mail users. Section 101(a) of Title 39
establishes the Postal Service's paramount obligation "to provide
postal services to bind the Nation together through the personal,
educational, literary, and business correspondence of the people."
The same section establishes the performance criterion that the
Postal Service is expected to achieve as a matter of postal policy:
"It shall provide prompt, reliable, and efficient services to
patrons in all areas and . . . all communities." Similarly, 
403(a) assigns the Postal Service the duty to "plan, develop,
promote, and provide adequate and efficient postal services at fair
and reasonable rates and fees." The Act fosters service innovation
by assigning the Postal Service responsibility "to provide types of
mail service to meet the needs of different categories of mail and
mail users[.]" 39
U.S.C.  403(b)(2).
The Reorganization Act grants the Postal Service specific powers
that serve as the operational tools of service innovation. Section
404 of Title 39 grants the Postal Service plenary authority over
custody of the mail and its movement [ 404(a)(1)]; over the
deployment of post offices, other facilities, and equipment [
404(a)(3)]; and over the means by which stamps and other postage
are sold [ 404(a)(4) and (5)]. The same section also authorizes
the Postal Service "to provide, establish, change, or abolish
special nonpostal or similar services[.]" 39 U.S.C. 
404(a)(6).
Conclusion: The Postal Reorganization Act of 1970 clearly
mandates that the Postal Service innovate by developing effective
and efficient postal services adapted to the needs of the Nation's
mail users.
2 Former 39 U.S.C.  504(a) authorized the Postmaster General to
maintain a research and development program, and to conduct
experiments to enhance the operational efficiency and economy of
the postal system.


B. Commission Review of Proposed Changes in Domestic Mail
Classifications
Prior to 1970, the array of mail services provided by the Post
Office Department was codified as part of Title 39.3 The
Reorganization Act replaced this statutory codification of postal
services with an administrative process in which the Governors of
the Postal Service establish, and the Postal Rate Commission
reviews proposed changes in, the terms and conditions of postal
services, which are compiled as the Domestic Mail Classification
Schedule (or "DMCS").4
Section 3621 of Title 39 provides that "the Governors are
authorized to establish reasonable and equitable classes of mail .
. . in accordance with the provisions of this chapter." Section
3623(a) directs the Postal Service to file a request with the
Postal Rate Commission for a recommended decision on establishing a
mail classification schedule within two years of the Reorganization
Act's effective date. The Postal Service complied with this
requirement early in 1973, and a Domestic Mail Classification
Schedule recommended by the Commission became effective on July 6,
1976.5
Following establishment of this initial mail classification
schedule,  3623(b) provides that the Postal Service "may from time
to time request that the Commission submit, or the Commission may
submit to the Governors on its own initiative, a recommended
decision on changes in the mail classification schedule."
Deliberations on proposed mail classification changes follow
proceedings in which an opportunity for on the record hearings is
afforded to mail users and an officer of the Commission required to
represent the interests of the general public. 39 U.S.C.  3624(a).
The Commission's procedural rules governing proposed changes in the
mail classification schedule are contained in Subpart C of title 39
of the Code of Federal Regulations, 39
C.F.R.  3001.61 et seq.
3 See former Title 39, Part IV-Mail Matter.
4 The text of the Domestic Mail Classification Schedule is
published as Appendix A to Subpart C of 39 C.F.R. Part 3001,
following 39 C.F.R.  3001.68
5 Docket No. MC73-1, Phase I, Opinion and Recommended Decision,
April 15, 1976; accepted in Decision of the Governors of the United
States Postal Service on Establishing a Mail Classification
Schedule, June 2, 1976.
Over the past 25 years, the Postal Service has filed many such
mail classification requests with the Commission, seeking either to
establish new postal products or to reconfigure pre-existing
services. Less frequently, the Commission has begun proceedings on
its own initiative, most commonly in response to a mail user's
request to do so. Both forms of proceeding have proven to offer
useful opportunities to introduce innovations in postal
services.
Conclusion: The joint authority shared by the Postal Service and
the Postal Rate Commission under the Reorganization Act to adopt
new mail classifications is the mechanism for implementing
innovations in domestic mail service.
C. Commission Procedures Adapted to the Expeditious
Consideration of Proposed Service Innovations
Recognizing that certain types of proposed service innovations
merit consideration under specialized procedures, the Commission
has adopted several sets of rules that are customized for defined
categories of Postal Service requests. The rules depart from those
generally applicable to proposed mail classification changes by
reducing the amount of supporting evidence the Postal Service is
required to produce, and by expediting the Commission's procedural
schedule for considering the particular form of proposed
change.
The Commission determined almost twenty years ago that there was
a need for specialized rules to facilitate Postal Service mail
classification requests involving proposed new services, or changes
in existing services, that were intended to serve as experiments.
The rules, contained in 39 C.F.R.  3001.67 through .67d, provide
a mechanism for limiting the issues on which a trial-type hearing
is required; allow the Postal Service to explain the unavailability
of data that would otherwise have to be filed; and provide for data
collection for the duration of the experiment. The experimental
rules also incorporate a procedural time limit of 150 days from the
Commission's determination that the proposed change is experimental
in nature.
These rules were not used extensively. A joint Postal
Service-Postal Rate Commission task force suggested a number of
areas where additional special rules might further encourage Postal
Service innovation.6 The Postal Service petitioned the Commission
in 1995 to adopt rules to implement some of the task force's
recommendations. The Commission conducted a rulemaking to consider
the rules proposed in the Service's petition, and after considering
the comments of interested parties, implemented four of the
proposed initiatives, albeit in revised form.
Three of the new sets of rules prescribe expedited procedures
for particular categories of Postal Service requests. The fourth
set specifies conditions under which the Service may use multi-year
test periods to demonstrate that a proposed new service will become
compensatory over time.
The first set of these new procedural rules, incorporated into
the Commission's rules of practice as sections 161 through 166,7
establish expedited procedures for consideration of Postal Service
proposed market tests of potential new services. The rules specify
the limited information the Service is required to file in support
of a proposed market test, including a plan for testing the
proposed new service and associated data collection and reporting
requirements. They also streamline public notice and hearing
procedures, and provide for issuance of a "yes or no" Commission
decision on the proposed market test within 90 days, consistent
with the procedural due process rights of interested persons. The
Postal Service's innovative Mailing Online service, for which a
three-year experimental trial was requested and approved in Docket
No. MC2000-2, was initially considered and recommended by the
Commission under the market test rules. See the Appendix to this
report under the heading for Docket No. MC2000-2.
The second set of rules,8 apply to Postal Service proposals to
implement new services that would supplement, but not alter,
existing mail classifications and rates on a provisional basis for
a limited time. As in the market test rules, the provisional
service rules identify the supporting information to be provided by
the Postal Service; in addition, they allow the Service to explain
why it should not be required to provide
6 See Postal Ratemaking in a Time of Change: A Report by the
Joint Task Force on Postal Ratemaking, June 1, 1992.
7 39 C.F.R.  3001.161-.166.
8 39 C.F.R.  3001.171-.176.
information called for in the Commission's general rules for
mail classification proposals. The rules likewise expedite public
notice and procedural scheduling, providing for a "yes or no"
Commission decision within 90 days, consistent with the due process
rights of other parties.
A third set of rules, adopted as sections 69 through 69c of the
rules of practice,9 applies to Postal Service requests for
permanent mail classification changes that are minor in character.
"Minor" classification changes are defined as those that would not
change any existing rate or fee; would not impose any new
restriction on eligibility for mailing; and would not significantly
increase or decrease the estimated contribution of the affected
mail subclass or service category to the institutional costs of the
Postal Service. The rules specify limited required supporting
information, allow the Service to explain the unavailability of
otherwise required data, and also streamline procedural scheduling.
Under these rules for minor classification proposals, the
procedural deadline for rendering a Commission decision is 90 days
from the filing of the Postal Service request if no hearings are
held, and 120 days if hearings are scheduled in the case.
Finally, the fourth set of rules, contained in sections 181 and
182 of the rules of practice, 10 applies to Postal Service requests
for new services that it believes cannot recover all their
associated costs in the first full fiscal year of their operation.
In such instances, the Service's request must be supported by
testimony of a Postal Service witness that explains the rationale
for the proposed multi-year test period. The request should also
provide Return on Investment projections, other available financial
analyses, and cost, revenue, and volume estimates for the new
service for the entire proposed test period. The rules establish a
policy standard that allows test periods of up to five fiscal years
for the purpose of determining breakeven for newly introduced
postal services.
The Commission adopted these four sets of rules in 1996, to be
effective for a period of five years. In light of their apparent
workability in several Commission proceedings and their continuing
usefulness for affording procedural flexibility to the
9 39 C.F.R.  3001.69-69c. 10 39 C.F.R.  3001.181-.182.
Postal Service, the Commission extended their application for an
additional five-year period in a recent rulemaking.11
Conclusion: Specialized Postal Rate Commission rules of
procedure are currently available for use by the Postal Service to
provide expeditious consideration of proposed service innovations
in a manner consistent with the due process rights of all
interested persons.
11 Docket No. RM2001-3, Order No. 1322, 66 Fed. Reg. 54436
(2001).
IV. POSTAL SERVICE AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO NEGOTIATED RATE AND
SERVICE AGREEMENTS WITH INDIVIDUAL CUSTOMERS OR GROUPS OF CUSTOMERS
TO PROVIDE SERVICES
For a number of years, some mailers have pursued the idea of
establishing customized postal rates and/or terms of service
through negotiation with the Postal Service. Depending on their
respective objectives and features, contractual arrangements of
this kind have been labeled "contract rates," "negotiated service
agreements," or more recently, "niche classifications." In
addressing the consistency of these various approaches with current
law, it is important to identify and consider all of their
characteristics. For example, the legality of an agreement may be
dependent on whether the contract is agreed upon and performed
without any regulatory scrutiny, or instead submitted for some form
of review by the Postal Rate Commission prior to its
effectiveness.
A. Statutory Bases of Potential Authority
No provision in existing law explicitly authorizes or prohibits
the Postal Service from entering into rate or service agreements
with mail users. Section 401(3) of Title 39 generally empowers the
Service "to enter into and perform contracts," and there is no
prohibition elsewhere against the Postal Service and mail users
negotiating and reaching consensus as to how rates or conditions of
service should be changed. However, other provisions in Title 39
cast into doubt the conclusion that the Service's authority under 
401(3) is sufficiently broad to encompass changes in rates or mail
classifications by agreement alone.
The obstacles to this conclusion are both procedural and
substantive. From a procedural perspective, the legal soundness of
rate or mail classification changes by contract alone is doubtful
because the only means of making such changes recognized in the
Reorganization Act are the procedures prescribed in Chapter 36 of
Title 39. These provisions require that rate or mail classification
changes desired by the Postal Service must be filed as a request
with the Postal Rate Commission, allowing for public scrutiny and
deliberations by the Commission and the Governors of the Postal
Service.
Failure to abide by the procedural requirements of Chapter 36
has been recognized as a sufficient legal basis for voiding the
intended change.12
Negotiated rate or service changes also may run afoul of the
substantive standards prescribed for rates and mail classifications
in the Reorganization Act. Section 403(c) of Title 39 directs
that:
In providing services and in establishing classifications,
rates, and fees under this title, the Postal Service shall not,
except as specifically authorized in this title, make any undue or
unreasonable discrimination among users of the mails, nor shall it
grant any undue or unreasonable preferences to any such user.
Sections 3622 and 3623 similarly specify fairness and equity,
together with other criteria, as considerations to be observed in
making rate and mail classification changes. Without public
scrutiny and review of the terms of a given rate or service
agreement between the Postal Service and a customer, there could be
no assurance that these substantive criteria would be
satisfied.
However, assuming the procedural requirements of Chapter 36 are
met, changes negotiated by the Postal Service and a mail user for
their mutual benefit may merit recommendation under the applicable
statutory standards. Section 3623(c) directs the Commission to
consider "the desirability and justification for special
classifications and services of mail" [ 3623(c)(2)] and "the
desirability of special classifications from the point of view of
both the user and of the Postal Service" [ 3623(c)(5)]. Regarding
rates,  3622(b)(6) establishes "the degree of preparation of mail
for delivery into the postal system performed by the mailer and its
effect upon reducing costs to the Postal Service" as a factor to be
considered in connection with a proposed change. In combination
with other factors and the policies of the Reorganization Act,
these
12 United Parcel Service v. U. S. Postal Service, 455 F.Supp.
857 (E.D. Pa. 1978), affirmed, 604 F.2d 1370 (3d Cir. 1979), cert.
denied, 446 U.S. 957 (1980).
considerations could support recommendation of rate and
classification changes tailored to the capabilities and needs of
particular mailers.
Conclusion: Rate and service agreements negotiated by the Postal
Service and mail users are permissible under current law if the
procedural and substantive requirements of the Postal
Reorganization Act are satisfied.


B. Problematical "Contract Rates"
In a rulemaking proceeding conducted in the late 1980s at the
request of a mailer, the Commission addressed the question of the
Postal Service's authority to negotiate rate changes in the form of
a proposal to recognize "contract rates." After considering
comments of the Postal Service and other participants, the
Commission found the proposal problematical, and declined to pursue
it.
The initial proposal, considered in Docket No. RM89-5, included
two variants:


1.
The Commission might, after considering cost and other
relevant evidence, establish a range of permissible rates for
particular subclasses, with the Postal Service and individual
mailers free thereafter to negotiate rates within this range;
or


2.
The Postal Service and one or more mailers would
negotiate a rate and service package which would then (i) be
submitted to the Commission for a review, and (ii) thereafter be
available on the same terms to all potential users.


The Commission solicited two rounds of comments on the proposal
from interested parties. The proponent and one other mailer took
the position that the Postal Service is authorized to enter into
such contracts, provided the procedural requirement of review under
Chapter 36 is observed. Other commenters-including the Commission's
Office of Consumer Advocate-expressed doubts regarding the legal
soundness of one or both of the proposed variants of such
agreements. The Postal Service commented that, in its view, legal
constraints would not preclude a contract mechanism in principle,
but that no such arrangement would be permissible without the
Commission's participation in accordance with 39 U.S.C.  3622
through 3625.
Upon consideration of the initial comments it received, the
Commission declined to pursue the contract rate proposal, but
solicited further comments on several broad issues concerning
possible changes in the mail classification system. The Commission
explained that its reluctance to pursue the concept of contract
rates was based on substantial uncertainty regarding the legal
sufficiency of examining agreed-upon rates after the fact, rather
than in a prior review. It also raised the potential problems of
unreasonable discrimination that such contracts might cause, in
contravention of 39
U.S.C.  403(c), and the preservation of fair contributions to
the Postal Service's institutional costs by mail volumes.13 Such
problems might well arise if the Service were to negotiate
"discounted" rates-unaccompanied by a change in service conditions
that provided cost or revenue justification.
Conclusion: Negotiated rates-unaccompanied by a change in
service conditions that provides cost justification-are a
problematical approach to introducing additional flexibility into
Postal Service business practices.


C. Negotiated Service Agreements and Specialized "Niche
Classifications"
Following publication of the report of the joint Postal
Service-Postal Rate Commission task force on ratemaking, the Postal
Service petitioned the Commission to adopt rules to implement some
of the report's recommendations. One recommendation included in the
Service's petition was adoption of Commission rules for reviewing
on an expedited basis "service agreements with postal customers,
varying from the general rate and classifications schedules in ways
which add value both for the customer and for the postal system as
a whole."14
The proposal in the Postal Service's petition would have
established Negotiated Service Agreements as a new form of mail
classification, with individual agreements to be reviewed by the
Commission within 60 days. In the Commission's Notice of Proposed
Rulemaking, it deferred consideration of the NSA proposal, citing
legal uncertainty regarding the consistency of negotiated rates
with the Reorganization Act's
13 Docket No. RM89-5, Further Invitation for Comments, 54 Fed.
Reg. 47223 (1989). 14 Postal Ratemaking in a Time of Change, supra,
at 54.
ratemaking provisions. However, the Commission also expressed a
general willingness to address the concept in a subsequent
rulemaking.
Since then, the Commission has conducted several mail
classification proceedings under the other expedited procedures
adopted in that rulemaking. These procedures have been shown to be
well suited to the consideration of "niche classification"
proposals. Niche classifications are specialized mail
classifications- including reduced, but cost-justified rates or
fees-that have been developed by the Postal Service in direct
consultation with its customers, to meet the needs and capabilities
of a mailer or group of mailers. For example, the Commission
approved a two-year experiment of a program that enabled users of
bulk, nonletter-size Business Reply Mail such as photofinishers
that could reliably determine postage and fees due, to obtain
earlier access to their mail at revised fees.15 The Commission
subsequently granted a requested extension of the experiment,16 and
ultimately approved a request to make the experimental program a
permanent mail classification.17 More recently, in Docket No.
MC2001-1, the Commission recommended three new worksharing-based
discounted Priority Mail categories after negotiating with mailers
who were willing to presort their mail in new ways that could
reduce the Postal Service's costs.18 Such "niche classification"
proposals are essentially Negotiated Service Agreements, without
any associated legal uncertainties or additional administrative
barriers.
Conclusion: Rate and service adjustments agreed upon by the
Postal Service and mailers are legally authorized if three
conditions are satisfied:
 The proposal is reviewed in a public proceeding, as the
Reorganization Act requires;
 The agreed-upon rate and service changes will work to the
mutual benefit of mail users and the postal system as a whole;
and
15 Docket No. MC97-1, Opinion and Recommended Decision, April 2,
1997.
16 Docket No. MC99-1, Opinion and Recommended Decision Approving
Revised Stipulation and Agreement, May 14, 1998.
17 Docket No. MC99-2, Opinion and Recommended Decision Approving
Stipulation and Agreement, July 14, 1999.
18 See the description of this proceeding in the Appendix.
 The negotiated rate-and-service package is made available on
the same terms to other potential users willing to meet the same
conditions of service.
Examples of "niche classification" proposals recommended in
recent Commission proceedings, and Postal Service product
innovations considered in other cases, are described in the
Appendix to this report.
Report To The Congress Appendix Feb. 11, 2002 Page 1 of 2
Postal Service Product Innovations and Special-Purpose Mail
Classification Changes Reviewed by the Postal Rate Commission Since
January 1, 2000


Docket No. MC2001-1-Experimental Presorted Priority Mail Rate
Categories



Nature of service or change: Experimental trial of three
new presorted rate categories of Priority Mail.



Target users: Mailers who can meet minimum quantity, mail
preparation and containerization requirements for presorting their
Priority Mail shipments.



Rate(s) and justification: Three levels of presort
discounts based on processing costs bypassed because of worksharing
by mailers.



Procedural history: Request filed by Postal Service on
March 7, 2001. Settlement agreement among parties filed on May 17,
2001. PRC decision approving settlement agreement transmitted to
Postal Service Governors on May 25, 2001. Governors approved PRC
decision on June 4, 2001.




Docket No. MC2000-1-Experimental "Ride-Along" Classification
Change for Periodicals



Nature of service or change: Experiment allowing one
piece of advertising matter to "ride-along" in a Periodicals
publication for a flat additional ten-cent rate.



Target users: Publishers who wish to include innovative
advertisements in their periodicals at a more affordable rate than
Standard A postage.



Rate(s) and justification: Flat ten-cent rate available
only for "ride-along" pieces that do not cause any significant
additional mail processing or delivery costs.



Procedural history: Request filed by Postal Service on
September 27, 1999. Settlement agreement among parties filed on
December 20, 1999. PRC decision approving settlement agreement
transmitted to Postal Service Governors on February 3, 2000.
Governors approved PRC decision on February 8, 2000.


 Update: Postal Service request for permanent authority filed
September 24, 2001 in Docket No. R2001-1. Action by Commission is
pending. Postal Service Request for extension of experiment filed
in Docket No. MC2001-3 on September 28, 2001. PRC decision
approving request transmitted to Postal Service Governors on
January 11, 2002.
Report To The Congress Appendix Feb. 11, 2002 Page 2 of 2


Docket No. MC2000-2-Mailing Online Experiment



Nature of service or change: Experimental service
enabling computer users to transmit documents in electronic form to
Postal Service for printing, processing, and delivery as Express
Mail, First-Class Mail or Standard A Mail.



Target users: Single-piece mailers and small office/home
office (SOHO) operators who have difficulty taking advantage of
traditional mail service providers.



Rate(s) and justification: Applicable bulk mailing rate
plus fee to recover costs of printing, technological resources,
advertising and other program-related expenses.



Procedural history: Market test of same service approved
by PRC in Docket No. MC98-1. Request for three-year experiment
filed by Postal Service on November 16, 1999. Hearings held
December, 1999 through February, 2000. PRC decision approving
proposal, with recommended fee modifications, on June 21, 2000.
Governors approved PRC decision on August 7, 2000.




Docket No. MC2001-2-Experimental Seasonal Delivery Confirmation
Fee



Nature of service or change: Experiment to provide manual
delivery confirmation without charge to retail Priority Mail users
during two weeks before the peak of the holiday mailing
season.



Target users: Small volume mailers that might be made
more inclined to mail before the holiday peak, and that also might,
as a result of the test, increase their purchases of delivery
confirmation service in the future.



Rate(s) and justification: Delivery confirmation to be
available at no charge to retail Priority Mail users during the
early stages of the holiday season.



Procedural History: Request Filed by Postal Service
September 20, 2001. Postal Service withdrew request on November 5,
2001 because the disruption of other events made conducting the
experiment inadvisable.










M E M O R A N D U M

Attached you will find a document entitled "Access to Records."
This document summarizes LSC management's internal practices with
respect to accessing information contained in records maintained by
LSC recipients. LSC management prides itself on thorough and
effective monitoring of recipient activities and on its training of
recipients with regard to compliance issues.
Of particular importance, however, are the methods for ensuring
that LSC obtain necessary access to information in ways that ensure
full compliance consistent with its statutory obligations. Congress
has mandated that LSC effectively monitor and audit its grant
recipients, and that LSC respect attorney-client privilege and
ensure that LSC recipients carry out their work consistent with
their professional responsibilities.
Please note that the statement of practices appended hereto as
"Access to Records" does not and is not intended to waive or alter
any of LSC's rights to documents and other information and does not
apply to audits, investigations and other OIG activities.
The Protocol is intended to set forth LSC's policy with respect
to accessing grant recipients' files and to facilitate better
communication and understanding on this topic. With appropriate
notice to the Board and LSC grant recipients, LSC's President may
change or alter this Protocol as circumstances warrant.
ACCESS TO RECORDS

April 25, 2002
This document sets forth procedures to be used by LSC's Office
of Compliance and Enforcement (OCE) and Office of Program
Performance (OPP) when making requests to review documents that
contain information about clients and their cases that may be
protected from disclosure to LSC by the attorney-client privilege
or the rules of professional responsibility.

STATUTORY FRAMEWORK
LSC has the statutory responsibility to ensure that recipients
comply with the provisions of the LSC Act and regulations and any
other laws, including appropriation provisions, which apply to LSC
funds or recipients. See Section 1006(b)(1)(A). LSC is given
explicit authority "to prescribe the keeping of records with
respect to funds provided by grant or contract and shall have
access to such records at all reasonable times for the purpose of
insuring compliance with the grant or contract or the terms and
conditions upon which financial assistance was provided." See
Section 1008 (b).
However, the LSC Act recognizes that some records contain
information that is protected by the attorney-client privilege
and/or attorney's ethical responsibilities under rules of
professional responsibility. Section 1009(d) of the LSC Act
explicitly provides that "neither the Corporation nor the
Comptroller General shall have access to any reports or records
subject to the attorneyclient privilege." In addition, section
1006(b)(3) includes both a prohibition that LSC "shall not, under
any provision of this title, interfere with any attorney in
carrying out his professional responsibilities" and also imposes an
affirmative duty that LSC "shall ensure that activities under this
title are carried out in a manner consistent with attorneys'
professional responsibilities."
Section 509(h) of the 1996 LSC appropriation, which has been
reenacted in each subsequent year, provides that, notwithstanding
section 1006(b)(3), LSC auditors and monitors are given explicit
access to "financial records, time records, retainer agreements,
client trust fund and eligibility records, and client names, for
each recipient  except for reports or records subject to the
attorney-client privilege." See United States v. Legal Services of
New York City, 249 F.3d 1077 (D.C. Cir. 2001). In addition, section
504(a)(8) of the 1996 LSC appropriation authorizes LSC access to
the client "statement of facts." Disclosure of information not
required by these sections of the 1996 appropriation provisions is
governed by sections 1006(b)(3) and 1009(d) of the LSC Act.


PURPOSE
The purpose of this document is to inform LSC recipients and
other interested parties of the procedure for providing LSC access
to records in a manner consistent with the attorney-client
privilege and applicable rules of professional responsibility and
the mechanism to resolve issues of how such access can be
obtained.


GENERAL PRINCIPLES
LSC will act to carry out its statutory responsibilities to
ensure compliance with the LSC Act, appropriation provisions and
any other provisions of law and will do so consistent with the
statutory provisions on both privileged and confidential
information.
LSC recipients are obligated to provide information to LSC under
the applicable LSC statutes, regulations, grant terms, grant
assurances, and other rules and provisions regarding the receipt
and use of LSC funds. For example, upon request, recipients must
provide LSC access to all records specified in section 509(h)
unless, as provided in section 509(h), the information sought is
protected by the attorney-client privilege. In addition, upon
request, recipients must also provide LSC access to original
unredacted client "statement of facts," as required by 45 CFR
1636. Recipients and LSC will work together in good faith
regarding issues of access to records that may contain information
protected by rules of professional responsibility or the law on
attorney-client privilege.


PROCEDURES


1.
Applicability: This procedure applies to requests by the
Office of Compliance and Enforcement (OCE) or the Office of Program
Performance (OPP) for access to records of a recipient that may
include information that may be protected by rules of professional
responsibility or the law on attorney-client privilege. Such
information will hereafter be referred to as privileged or
confidential information. As applied to OPP, references to OCE and
the Vice President for Administration shall be to OPP and the Vice
President for Programs.


2.
Notice to the Recipient: Whenever OCE proposes to review
the records of a recipient either through an on-site visit or
otherwise, OCE notifies the recipient orally and in writing about
the purpose of the visit or review, what activities OCE will
conduct, and what specific information and records are planned to
be within the scope of the review. Each review is an ongoing
process that may expand based on information reviewed. As such, OCE
will notify the recipient orally and in writing when the scope of
the review has changed or expanded and what information and records
are further required.


3.
Use of Intermediaries: In all written and oral
communications with recipients, OCE will affirmatively propose that
recipients use program staff as an intermediary to review case
files (or other records containing privileged or confidential
information) and to answer questions of OCE. During on-site visits,
OCE will affirmatively encourage recipients to use such
intermediaries and will not request direct access to or control
over client case files or any other records containing privileged
or confidential information.


4.
Flexibility of Approaches: OCE shall consider and seek to
accommodate reasonable approaches to access to records proposed by
recipients to protect privileged or confidential information so
long as such proposed approaches also ensure access by OCE to
information it needs to carry out its responsibilities. Such
reasonable approaches may include unique client identifiers when
appropriate.


5.
Unique State Ethics Rules: LSC acknowledges that there
may be states where the rules of professional responsibility,
ethics rulings, case law or other laws differ from the general
framework under the Model Rules of Professional Responsibility and
where the disclosures sought by OCE may implicate the recipient
attorneys' professional responsibilities or other law. Recipients
have the responsibility to bring such ethical rulings to the
attention of OCE as set forth in section 7 below after they have
been notified by OCE of an impending request for access to records
containing privileged or confidential information


6.
Questions of Attorney-Client Privilege: OCE shall not
have access to information protected by the attorney-client
privilege, including information covered by section 509(h). A
recipient shall notify OCE under the procedures set forth in
section 7 below, that the information sought is, in the recipient's
view, protected by the attorney-client privilege.


7.
Procedures for Addressing Privileged or Confidential
Information: If a recipient believes that documents or information
requested by OCE contain information that is protected by the
attorney-client privilege, applicable rules of professional
responsibility or other law, the recipient will send written notice
to OCE as soon as possible setting forth (1) a full description of
the nature of the privileged or confidential information, (2) a
statement explaining the basis for determining that such
information is privileged or confidential, and (3) any
recommendations of reasonable approaches to accessing such
information. Upon receipt of this notice, OCE will so notify the
Vice President for Administration and seek to find a mutually
satisfactory manner for obtaining access to the information
consistent with the applicable rules of attorney-client privilege
and professional responsibility and consistent with LSC's need for
information to ensure compliance.


If OCE is not able to expediently resolve all outstanding issues
of concern, it will, through the Vice President for Administration,
promptly so advise LSC's President and the Vice Presidents for
Programs, Legal Affairs and Government Relations of the access
issues raised and the specific reasons why the proposed alternative
methods of access are inadequate. The Vice President for
Administration and Programs, with advice of the Office of Legal
Affairs, then will review the concerns raised by the recipient. If
the Vice Presidents for Administration and Programs do not agree
with the position of the recipient, then LSC will so notify the
recipient in writing and OCE will proceed with the review.
If Vice Presidents for Administration and Programs agree that
the recipient has a reasonable claim that the information is
privileged or confidential, then OCE will further seek to develop a
mutually satisfactory manner for obtaining access to the
information consistent with the applicable rules of attorney-client
privilege and professional responsibility and consistent with LSC's
need for information to ensure compliance.



8.
Disputes Between LSC and Recipients: If OCE and the
recipient cannot agree on an approach that will give OCE
appropriate access to the records it needs and is consistent with
the recipient's responsibilities to protect privileged or
confidential information, OCE, through the Vice-President for
Administration, may recommend to the Vice President for Programs
that LSC should take appropriate action with respect to the
recipient. The Vice President for Programs will review the
recommendation and make further inquiry as appropriate. The Vice
President for Programs may request that and the President may
direct OCE to further work with the recipient on an acceptable
resolution or appropriately modify the request.

If the Vice President for Programs determines that LSC should
proceed to take action affecting the recipient, it shall notify the
recipient in writing of the action that is proposed. If the action
involves suspension or termination of funding, LSC will proceed in
a manner consistent with Parts 1606 or 1623 of Title 45 of the Code
of Federal Regulations. However, if the action involves a sanction
or adverse action other than termination or suspension, then LSC
may, and is encouraged to, allow a recipient an opportunity to
further present it's position. Such a process could follow the
following procedure. The recipient would be given an opportunity to
request a meeting with the Vice President for Programs to ask for
reconsideration of the proposed action. If the recipient requests
such a face-to-face meeting, the Vice President for Programs would
convene such a meeting and make a recommendation to LSC's President
as to how LSC should proceed. As soon thereafter as is practical,
the Vice President for Programs would notify the recipient in
writing of the recommendation to the President and the reasons
therefore. The recipient may then request a meeting with the LSC
President to ask for reconsideration of the Vice President's
recommendation. The recipient would be given the opportunity to
provide such additional written information as it believes will
assist the President to fully and fairly consider its concerns and
objections. Upon such request, the President could also convene a
face-to-face meeting with the authorized representatives of the
recipient. As soon thereafter as practical, the LSC President would
advise the recipient of the final decision and reasons therefore.
The decision of the LSC President would be in writing and shall be
final and binding.


9.
If LSC management determines that a recipient has taken
an unreasonable position or refused to work in good faith with OCE
on these issues, then LSC may take reasonable corrective action in
addition to pursuing access to the information in
question.


10.
In describing these procedures, LSC does not in any way
waive the statutory rights and obligations of LSC or LSC recipients
regarding access to and review of LSC recipients' records and
information. These procedures do not create new rights or
obligations for LSC or LSC recipients and may be modified by the
LSC President as warranted, with appropriate notice to the Board
and field programs.







<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<cesDoc xmlns="http://www.xces.org/schema/2003" version="1.0.4">
<text>
<body>
<head type="title">Scholastic Career</head>
<p><p>A little girl had just finished her first week of school. 
"I'm wasting my time," she said to her mother. "I can't read, I can't write - and they won't let me talk!"
</p>

<head type="title">Perspective View</head>
<p>"A Developer is someone who wants to build a house in the woods. 
An environmentalist is someone who already owns a house in the woods." --Dennis Miller
</p>

<head type="title">Dry Humor</head>
<p>A visitor to Texas once asked, "Does it ever rain out here?" 
A rancher quickly answered, "Yes, it does."
"When?" asked the visitor.
"Do you remember that part in the Bible where it rained for 40 days and 40 nights?"
The visitor replied, "Yes, I'm familiar with the account of Noah's flood."
"Well," the rancher drawled, "we got nearly half an inch that year."
</p>

<head type="title">Entrepreneur </head>
<p>A newsboy was standing on the corner with a his papers, yelling, "Read all about it. Fifty people swindled! Fifty people swindled!"
Curious, a man walked over, bought a paper, and checked the front page. What he saw was yesterday's paper. The man said, "Hey, this is an old paper, where's the story about the big swindle?"
The newsboy just ignored him and went on calling out, "Read all about it. Fifty-one people swindled!"
</p>

<head type="title">On the Blink.</head>
<p>On a recent flight, an elderly passenger kept peering out the window. Since it was totally dark, all she could see was the blinking wing-tip light. Finally, she rang for the flight attendant. 
"I'm sorry to bother you," she said, "but I think you should inform the pilot that his left-turn indicator is on and has been for some time."
</p>

<head type="title">No Bull </head>
<p>After much urging by his wife, Uncle Joe applied for work on a farm. The foreman decided to give him a try and sent him to milk a cow, equipping him with a stool and a bucket.
An hour later Uncle Joe returned dirty and sweaty, the bucket in one hand and the broken stool in the other. "Extracting the milk was easy," he explained. "The hard part was getting the cow to sit down on that darn stool!"
</p>

<head type="title">Universal Truth</head>
<p>There is a theory which states that if anyone ever discovers exactly what the Universe is for and why it is here, it will instantly disappear and be replaced by something even more bizarre and inexplicable. Then there is a second theory, which postulates that this has already happened.
</p>

<head type="title">Bumper Sticker</head>
<p>"Metaphors be with you." 
</p>

<head type="title">Ergo.</head>
<p>It's October, and an Indian chief thinks it's going to be a cold winter. So he instructs his tribe to collect firewood. 
To double-check his prediction, the chief calls the National Weather Service and asks a meteorologist if the winter is going to be a cold one.
The man responds, "According to our indicators, we think it might."
So the chief tells his people to find extra wood, just in case. A week later he calls the National Weather Service again, and they confirm that a harsh winter is headed their way.
The chief orders all of his people to scavenge every scrap of wood they can. Two weeks later he calls the National Weather Service again and asks, "Are you absolutely sure this winter is going to be very cold?"
"Absolutely," the man replies. "The Indians are collecting wood like crazy."
</p>

<head type="title">Plain truth. </head>
<p>"The child had his mother's eyes, his mother's nose and his mother's mouth. Which, when you think about it, probably left the mother looking quite blank". (according to Robert Benchley)
</p>

<head type="title">Final Analysis</head>
<p>When weeding, the best way to make quite that sure you are removing a weed and not a valuable plant, is to pull on it. If it comes out of the ground easily, it was not a weed.
</p>

<head type="title">Quotes.</head>
<p>"I understand life isn't fair, but why couldn't it just once be unfair in my favor?" (Christy Murphy)
The pen is mightier than the sword, and considerably easier to write with." (Marty Feldman)
</p>

<head type="title">Well, well.</head>
<p>A couple is taking a stroll in a lovely meadow when they come upon a wishing well. The woman leans over, makes a wish, and throws in a quarter. Her husband decides he wants to make a 
wish, also. Unfortunately, he leans over too far, falls down into the well. 
The woman stands there shaken for a moment, and then exclaims, "Wow, it WORKS!"
</p>

<head type="title">A Fine Story..</head>
<p>Here is a supposedly true story someone found regarding exams at Cambridge University. It seems that during an examination one day a bright young student popped up and asked the proctor to bring him Cakes and Ale. The following dialog ensued: 
Proctor: I beg your pardon?
Student: Sir, I request that you bring me Cakes and Ale.
Proctor: Sorry, no.
Student: Sir, I really must insist. I request and require that you bring me Cakes and Ale. 
At this point, the student produced a copy of the four hundred year old Laws of Cambridge, written in Latin and still nominally in effect, and pointed to the section which read (roughly translated): "Gentlemen sitting examinations may request and require Cakes and Ale." 
Pepsi and hamburgers were judged the modern equivalent, and the student sat there, writing his examination and happily slurping away. 
Three weeks later, the same student was fined five pounds for not wearing a sword to the examination.
</p>

<head type="title">Off Key.</head>
<p>Two keys hang in the undertaker's office - one for the organ in the chapel; the other for one of the vehicles in the garage.
Two small signs above the keys read "Hymns" and "Hearse."
</p>

<head type="title">Great Shape</head>
<p>You're in incredible shape," the doctor said. "How old are you again?"
"I am 78." The man said.
"78!" replied the doctor. "How do you stay so healthy? You look like a 60-year-old."
"Well, my wife and I made a pact when we got married that whenever she got mad she would go into the kitchen and cool off and I would go outside for a walk to settle down." the man explained.
"What does that have to do with it?" asked the doctor.
"Well, I've lived pretty much of an outdoor life."
</p>

<head type="title">Factor X</head>
<p>Noah opens up the great front doors on the ark and let all the animals out, telling them to "Go forth and multiply." He's closing them again when he notices that there are two snakes still sitting in a dark corner. So he says to them, "Didn't you hear me? You can go now. Go forth and multiply." 
"Well, that's just it, you see Mr Noah", said the snakes, "We can't, because we're adders."
</p>

<head type="title">Perfectly Reasonable Observations: </head>
<p>If your parents never had children, chances are... neither will you. ~ Dick Cavett
My kids never understood logic. Both of them failed to see why they had to go to bed when I was tired.
"One thing about the speed of light...it gets here too early in the morning." - Unknown
My therapist told me the way to achieve true inner peace is to finish what I start. So far today I have finished one hamburger, a cheese pizza and 2 bags of chips. 
</p>

<head type="title">I feel better already. </head>
<p>"Never try to teach a pig to sing. It wastes your time and it annoys the pig."
</p>

<head type="title">PREGNANCY Q & A</head>
<p>Q: Should I have a baby after 35?
A: No, 35 children is enough.
Q: I'm two months pregnant now. When will my baby move?
A: With any luck, right after he finishes college.
Q: What is the most common pregnancy craving?
A: For men to be the ones who get pregnant.
Q: What is the most reliable method to determine a baby's sex?
A: Childbirth.
Q: The more pregnant I get, the more often strangers smile at me. Why?
A: 'Cause you're fatter than they are.
Q: My wife is five months pregnant and so moody that sometimes she's borderline irrational.
A: So what's your question?
Q: My childbirth instructor says it's not pain I'll feel during labor, but pressure. Is she right?
A: Yes, in the same kind of way that a tornado might be called an air current.
Q: When is the best time to get an epidural?
A: Right after you find out you're pregnant.
Q: Is there any reason I have to be in the delivery room while my wife is in labor?
A: Not unless the word "alimony" means anything to you.
Q: Is there anything I should avoid while recovering from childbirth?
A: Yes, pregnancy.
Q: Do I have to have a baby shower?
A: Not if you change the baby's diaper very quickly.
Q: Our baby was born last week. When will my wife begin to feel and act normal again?
A: When the kids are in college.
</p>

<head type="title">That's Easy</head>
<p>Fred and Harry took their lunches into the local cafe to eat.
"Hey!" shouted the proprietor. "You can't eat your own food in here!" 
"O - kay," said Fred, and they promptly swapped their sandwiches.
</p>

<head type="title">Liquid Lunch</head>
<p>Having arrived at the edge of the river, the fisherman soon realized he had forgotten to bring any bait. Just then he happened to see a little snake passing by who had caught a worm. The fisherman snatched up the snake and robbed him of his worm. 
Feeling sorry for the little snake with no lunch, he snatched him up again and poured a little beer down his throat and went about his fishing. 
An hour or so later the fisherman felt a tug at his pant leg. Looking down, he saw the same little snake had come back with three more worms.
May be Sung to 'The Sound of Music'. 
DOH RE MI BEER, by Homer J. Simpson.
DOUGH... the stuff...that buys me beer... 
RAY..... the guy that sells me beer... 
ME...... the guy... who drinks the beer, 
FAR..... the distance to my beer 
SO...... I think I'll have a beer... 
LA...... La la la la la la beer 
TEA..... no thanks, I'm drinking beer... 
That will bring us back to...(Looks into an empty glass) 
D'OH!
</p>

<head type="title">You've got to be quick.</head>
<p>"My mother buried three husbands, and two of them were just napping." --Rita Rudner
</p>

<head type="title">Dusty Answer</head>
<p>"The day I worry about cleaning my house is the day they come out with a 'ride on' vacuum cleaner."
</p>

<head type="title">The Thief</head>
<p>A man was in the habit of carrying an umbrella wherever he went. Unfortunately he broke his last good one. Looking at the six useless umbrellas in his umbrella stand he decided to take them all in and have them repaired. 
On the bus on the way home he picked up the umbrella of the woman sitting next to him, purely out of habit. She immediately cried, "Stop, thief!" and he surrendered the umbrella and got off the bus much embarrassed. 
The next week he went to pick up his merchandise and when he got on the bus with the six umbrellas under his arm he just so happened to sit next to the very same woman. 
She gave him an icy stare and said, "Had a good day, huh?"
</p>

<head type="title">Second Opinion.</head>
<p>A man brought a very limp dog into the veterinary clinic. As he lay the dog on the table, the doctor pulled out his stethoscope, placing the receptor on the dog's chest. After a moment or two, the vet shook his head sadly and said, "I'm sorry, but your dog has passed away".
"What?", screamed the man, "How can you tell? You haven't done any testing on him or anything. I want another opinion!"
With that, the vet turned and left the room. In a few moments, he returned with a Labrador Retriever. The Retriever went right to work, checking the poor dead dog out thoroughly. After a considerable amount of sniffing, The Retriever sadly shook its head and barked. The veterinarian then took the Labrador out and returned in a few moments with a cat, who also checked out the poor dog on the table. As had its predecessors, the cat sadly shook its head and meowed. It then jumped off the table and ran out of the room.
The veterinarian handed the man a bill for 600 dollars. The dog's owner went berserk. "600 dollars! Just to tell me my dog is dead? This is outrageous!"
The vet shook his head sadly and explained. "If you had taken my word or it, it would have been 50 dollars, but you insisted on the Lab report and the Cat scan....." 
</p>

<head type="title">Same on the other side, but different. </head>
<p>A Tibetan housewife smelled something burning in the kitchen. 
When she rushed in and saw smoke pouring out of the oven she cried out, "Oh, my baking yak!"
</p>

<head type="title">A Line Joke</head>
<p>"According to a recent report, this years airline passengers have been subject to longer delays and ruder service than ever before. 
When interviewed about this, a spokesperson for the airlines said, 'Shut up and get back in line!' -- Conan O'Brien
The Price of Fame..
The doctor took his patient into a room and said, "I have some good news and some bad news." 
The patient said, "Please give me the good news first." 
"They're going to name a disease after you."
</p>

<head type="title">Today's Joke - </head>
<p>Q. What's black and blue, and floats in the Irish sea?
A. The Englishman who told one too many Irish Jokes.........
</p>

<head type="title">A classic tale. </head>
<p>This is a bricklayer's accident report, which was printed in the newsletter of the British equivalent of the Workers' Compensation Board.
This is the true story. Had this guy died, he'd have received a Darwin Award for sure...
</p>

<head type="title">Dear Sir</head>
<p>I am writing in response to your request for additional information in Block 3 of the accident report form. I put " Poor planning" as the cause of my accident. You asked for a fuller explanation and I trust the following details will be sufficient. 
am a bricklayer by trade. On the day of the accident, I was working alone on the roof of a new six-storey building. When I completed my work, I found I had some bricks left over, which, when weighed later, were found to be slightly in excess of 500lbs.
Rather than carry the bricks down by hand, I decided to lower them in a barrel by using a pulley, which was attached to the side of the building on the sixth floor. Securing the rope at ground level, I went up to the roof, I swung the barrel out and loaded the bricks into it. Then I went down and untied the rope, holding it tightly to ensure a slow descent of the bricks. 
You will note in Block 11 of the accident report form that I weigh 135lbs. Due to my surprise at being jerked off the ground so suddenly, I lost my presence of mind and forgot to let go of the rope. Needless to say, I proceeded at a rapid rate up the side of the building. In the vicinity of the third floor, I met the barrel which was now proceeding downward at an equally impressive speed. This explains the fractured skull, minor abrasions and the broken collarbone, as listed in Section 3 of the accident report form. Slowed only slightly, I continued my rapid ascent, not stopping until the fingers of my right hand were two knuckles deep into the pulley.
Fortunately by this time I had regained my presence of mind and was able to hold tightly to the rope, in spite of the excruciating pain I was now beginning to experience. At approximately the same time, however, the barrel of bricks hit the ground and the bottom fell out of the barrel. Now devoid of the weight of the bricks, that barrel weighed approximately 50 lbs. I refer you again to my weight. As you might imagine, I began a rapid descent, down the side of the building. In the vicinity of the third floor, I met the barrel coming up. This accounts for the two fractured ankles, broken tooth and severe lacerations of my legs and lower body.
Here my luck began to change slightly. The encounter with the barrel seemed to slow me enough to lessen my injuries when I fell into the pile of bricks and fortunately only three vertebrae were cracked. I am sorry to report, however, as I lay there on the pile of bricks, in pain, unable to move, I again lost my composure and presence of mind and let go of the rope and I had to lay there watching the empty barrel begin its journey back down onto me. This explains the two broken legs.
I hope this answers your inquiry.
</p>

<head type="title">Deep thoughts from comedian Steven Wright....... </head>
<p>A bus station is where a bus stops. A train station is where a Train stops. On my desk, I have a work station.
If Fed Ex and UPS were to merge, would they call it Fed UP?
If quitters never win, and winners never quit, what fool came up with, "Quit while you're ahead"?
Do Lipton employees take coffee breaks?
What hair color do they put on the driver's licenses of bald men?
I was thinking about how people seem to read the Bible a whole lot more as they get older, then it dawned on me...they were cramming for their finals...
I thought about how mothers feed their babies with little tiny spoons and forks, so I wonder what Chinese mothers use. Toothpicks?
Why do they put pictures of criminals up in the Post Office? What are we supposed to do . . . write to these men? Why don't they just put their pictures on the postage stamps so the mailmen could look for them while they delivered the mail?
How much deeper would oceans be if sponges didn't live there?
If it's true that we are here to help others, then what exactly are the OTHERS here for?
Clones are people two.
If you can't be kind, at least have the decency to be vague.
Ever wonder what the speed of lightning would be if it didn't zigzag?
I went for a walk last night and my kids asked me how long I'd be gone. I said, "The whole time."
So what's the speed of dark?
After eating, do amphibians need to wait an hour before getting OUT of the water?
If you're sending someone some Styrofoam, what do you pack it in?
I just got skylights put in my place. The people who live above me are furious.
Is it true that cannibals don't eat clowns because they taste funny?
Isn't Disney World a people trap operated by a mouse?
Since light travels faster than sound, isn't that why some people appear bright until you hear them speak?
How come abbreviated is such a long word?
If you take an Chinese person, close his eyes and spin him around several times, does he become disoriented?
</p>

<head type="title">Deer Tracks</head>
<p>There was a Mexican, Indian, and an Aggi. They were all out camping, when the Indian said "Me hungry me go find food." So he heads out. Later that night he comes back with a deer on his shoulder. 
The Mexican says, "How you catch deer?"
The Indian replied, "Me be very, very quiet, Me follow tracts, me shot, me catch deer."
So the next day the Mexican went out he also returned later that night with a deer on his shoulder too. The Aggi said, "How did you catch that deer?"
The Mexican said, "Me be very, very quiet, me follow tracts, me shot, me catch deer."
So the next day the Aggi went out. He returned the following day all black and blue. The Indian asked, "What happen?"
The Aggi replied, "Me be very, very quiet, me follow tracts, me shot, me get hit by train..."
</p>

<head type="title">My Goldfish Died</head>
<p>Little Tim was in the garden filling in a hole when his neighbor peered over the fence. Interested in what the cheeky-faced youngster was up to, he politely asked, "What are you up to there, Tim?"
"My goldfish died," replied Tim tearfully, without looking up, "and I've just buried him."
The neighbor was concerned, "That's an awfully big hole for a goldfish, isn't it?"
Tim patted down the last heap of earth then replied, "That's because he's inside your stupid cat."
</p>

<head type="title">Ups and downs</head>
<p>A man is driving up a steep, narrow mountain road. A woman is driving down the same road. As they pass each other, the woman leans out the window and yells, "PIG"! The man immediately leans out his window and offers a suggestion of his own. They each continue on their way, and as the man rounds the next corner he slams into the pig in the middle of the road.
</p>

<head type="title">Sum it up this way.</head>
<p>Why am I frowning? It takes 42 muscles to frown and only 17 to smile and I need the exercise!
</p>

<head type="title">How's That Again?? </head>
<p>"If you've enjoyed watching this program just half as much as we've enjoyed doing it, then we've enjoyed it twice as much as you." --Michael Palin, Monty Python's Flying Circus

</body>
</text>
</cesDoc>


USSRSOS

Some new information has come to light over the Kursk disaster. (For those with short attention spans, the Kursk was the submarine that blew up and sank in the Arctic Ocean killing all 118 on board.) The Russians tried to blame the incident on a collision with an unidentified object. However, sonar tapes which recorded the blasts (a small one at first, then a much larger one, two minutes later), cast doubt on these claims. 
A whistle-blower within the Russian military has leaked that the crew of the Kursk was testing a new type of torpedo when the accident occurred. It seemed very likely that the test didn't go quite as planned. While rescue efforts to save the survivors of the Kursk failed, salvage crews were able to recover a 'Black Box' from the submarine which recorded events leading up to the explosion. 
As luck would have it, we managed to obtain a copy of those tapes. It turns out that the submarine crew was trying to load Microsoft Windows on their fire control computer. Their intent was to replace the aging CP/M operating system with the flashier Windows OS. Apparently, the Russians didn't know about the legendary stability problems exhibited by Windows. The log tapes make this painfully obvious: 


Captain: Is the new fire control Windows OS installed yet? 
Seaman: Almost Sir. We just need to finish filling out the registration card. 
Captain: Excellent!. Soon we will be able to point and click our enemies into oblivion. -[ evil laughter in background ] 
Seaman: Captain! It is booting! Look, it says "Preparing to run Windows for the first time". -[ Very long pause] 
Seaman: Arrgh! Sir, it wants me to reboot again. That makes the 27th time. 
Captain: Hmmm. This is not encouraging. Go ahead and reboot again. 
Seaman: Aye Sir. -[another long pause] 
Seaman: Captain, it is up again. It says it found new hardware ... A CD-ROM drive and that it needs drivers. 
Captain: Where are the drivers? 
Seaman: On the CD-ROM. 
Captain: You are joking, right? 
Seaman: No Sir. 
Captain: Reboot the damn thing again. I am starting not to like this Windows. -[another long pause] 
Seaman: Sir! It is back! It says it found the Gorby2000 Torpedo and is looking for the device drivers. Do we have a driver disk? 
Captain: I do not think so. 
Seaman: I will tell it to use the default drivers. -[another long pause] 
Seaman: Crap. It wants to reboot again. 
Captain: How many times are we going to reboot today? This is taking forever. Our hull is going to rust out before this works. -[another long pause] 
Seaman: Sir! It is up and this time it is not asking for anything! 
Captain: Really? No device drivers? No registration cards? No user profiles? 
Seaman: No Sir. I think it is ready. 
Captain: Good work. Now click on the fire control icon and let us see how this works. 
Seaman: Clicking now, Sir. -[another long pause] 
Captain: Why does the fire control screen have a dancing paper clip on it? 
Seaman: I have no idea Sir. 
Captain: Hmmm, well try clicking on the menu. 
Seaman: Aye Sir. Let us see; Open E-mail, Spam a friend, Mail a Virus, Fire a Torpedo. 
Captain: We will Spam a friend later. Let us fire a torpedo. 
Seaman: Aye Sir. -[another long pause] 
Seaman: It is asking us to load the torpedo and to click when ready. 
Captain: Torpedo room, load a torpedo in tube number 1! 
[intercom:] This is the Torpedo room. The torpedo is loaded Sir. 
Captain: Click on the continue button. 
Seaman: Aye Sir. -[another long pause] 
Seaman: It is asking for a target Sir. 
Captain: Hmmm, target the Rainbow Warrior. 
Seaman: Aye Sir. Damn! It says the torpedo is low on ink. 
Captain: Click ignore. We will get some ink when we return to base. 
Seaman: Aye Sir. We are ready to fire. 
Captain: Very good. You may fire when ready. 
Seaman: Firing torpedo Sir. -[another really long pause] 
Captain: Well? 
Seaman: I am trying Sir. Nothing is happening. Wait a minute.... 
[a loud explosion is heard in the background followed by screaming on intercom] 
Captain: What the **** was that?!?!? 
Seaman: Captain! A new screen has appeared! Outlook Express Fire Control has performed an illegal operation and will be shut down. Click 'OK' to continue. 
Seaman: Oh my God! The paper clip has died! What should I do? 
Captain: Shut it down! Shut it down! 
Seaman: It is not responding Sir! 
Captain: Try 'CTRL-ALT-DELETE'! 
Seaman: Aye Sir. We are in luck! The task manager is still operating. I'm instructing the task manager to shut down Outlook Fire Control. -[another long pause] 
Seaman: The task manager says that Outlook Fire Control is not responding. 
Captain: Well no **** . Tell it to 'end task'. 
Seaman: Nothing is happening Sir. 
Captain: Try 'CTRL-ALT-DELETE' again. 
Seaman: Aye Sir. -[sounds of frantic pecking on keyboard.] 
Seaman: Oooh! What a pretty blue screen! 
Captain: Holy **** ! Not the blue screen of dea.... -
[ KABLAM!!!!! - A really big explosion. More screaming and the sound of rushing water.] The tape ends at this point. 
During the weeklong rescue effort, divers reported hearing tapping in the form of Morse code coming from survivors inside the damaged sub. The rescuers couldn't understand why a group of men would spend the last of their strength tapping out "Windows Sucks" in Morse code. The tapes of the last moments of the Kursk may offer some insight into this.


Army Training
At one Army base, the annual trip to the rifle range had been canceled for the second year in a row, but the semi-annual physical fitness test was still on as planned.
One soldier pondered, "Does it bother anyone here that the Army doesn't care how well we can shoot, but they seem to be extremely interested in how fast we can run?"


REDNECK COMPUTER TERMS
BACKUP - What you do when you run across a skunk in the woods.
BAR CODE - Them's the fight'n rules down in the local tavern.
BUG - The reason you give for calling in sick.
BYTE - What your pit bull dun to cusin Jethro.
CACHE - Needed when you run out of food stamps.
CHIP - Pasture muffins that you try not to step in.
TERMINAL - Time to call the undertaker.
CRASH - When you go to Junior's party uninvited.
DIGITAL - The art of counting on your fingers.
DISKETTE - Female disco dancer.
FAX - What you lie about to the IRS.
HACKER - Uncle Leroy after 32 years of smoking.
HARDCOPY - Picture looked at when selecting tattoos.
INTERNET - Where cafeteria workers put their hair.
KEYBOARD - Where you hang the keys to the John Deere.
MAC - Big Bubba's favorite fast food.
MEGAHERTZ - How your head feels after 17 beers.
MODEM - What ya did when the grass and weeds got too tall.
MOUSE PAD - Where Mickey and Minnie live.
NETWORK - Scoop'n up a big fish before it breaks the line.
ONLINE - Where to stay when taking the sobriety test.
SCREEN - Helps keep the Skeeters off the porch.
SERIAL PORT - A red wine you drink after breakfast.
SUPERCONDUCTOR - AMTRAK's Employee of the Year.
SCSI - What you call your week-old underwear.
ROM - Where the Pope lives.







Airline Joke.

"This is Captain Sinclair speaking. On behalf of my crew I'd like to welcome you aboard 747 flight 602 from New York to London. We are currently flying at a height of 35,000 feet midway across the Atlantic." "If you look out of the windows on the starboard side of the aircraft, you will observe that both the starboard engines are on fire. If you look out of the windows on the port side, you will observe that the port wing has fallen off."
"If you look back down towards the Atlantic ocean, you will see a tiny little yellow life raft with three people in it waving at you. That's is me, your captain, the co-pilot, and the best looking air stewardess." 
"This is a recorded message. This is a recorded message. This is a re...""


ALWAYS THOUGHT GREEN SNAKES WERE OK? READ ON........

Green Garden Grass snakes can be dangerous, Yes, grass snakes, not rattlesnakes.
A couple in Sweetwater, Texas had a lot of potted plants, and during a recent cold spell, the wife was bringing a lot of them indoors to protect them from a possible freeze. It turned out that a little green garden grass snake was hidden in one of the plants and when it had warmed up, it slithered out and the wife saw it go under the sofa. She let out a very loud scream.
The husband who was taking a shower ran out into the living room naked to see what the problem was. She told him there was a snake under the sofa. He got down on the floor on his hands and knees to look for it.
About that time the family dog came and cold-nosed him on the leg. He thought the snake had bitten him and he fainted. His wife thought he had a heart attack, so she called an ambulance. The attendants rushed in and loaded him on the stretcher and started carrying him out. About that time the snake came out from under the sofa and the Emergency Medical Technician saw it and dropped his end of the stretcher. That's when the man broke his leg and why he is in the hospital.
The wife still had the problem of the snake in the house, so she called on a neighbor man. He volunteered to capture the snake. He armed himself with a rolled-up newspaper and began poking under the couch.
Soon he decided it was gone and told the woman, who sat down on the sofa in relief. But in relaxing, her hand dangled in between the cushions, where she felt the snake wriggling around. She screamed and fainted, the snake rushed back under the sofa, and the neighbor man, seeing her laying there passed out tried to use CPR to revive her.
The neighbor's wife, who had just returned from shopping at the grocery store, saw her husband's mouth on the woman's mouth and slammed her husband in the back of the head with a bag of canned goods, knocking him out and cutting his scalp to a point where it needed stitches. An ambulance was again called and it was determined that the injury required hospitalization.
The noise woke the woman from her dead faint and she saw her neighbor lying on the floor with his wife bending over him, so she assumed he had been bitten by the snake. She went to the kitchen, brought back a small bottle of whiskey, and began pouring it down the man's throat.
By now the police had arrived. They saw the unconscious man, smelled the whiskey, and assumed that a drunken fight had occurred. They were about to arrest them all, when the two women tried to explain how it all happened over a little green snake. They called an ambulance, which took away the neighbor and his sobbing wife.
Just then the little snake crawled out from under the couch. One of the policemen drew his gun and fired at it. He missed the snake and hit the leg of the end table that was on one side of the sofa. The table fell over and the lamp on it shattered and as the bulb broke, it started a fire in the drapes.
The other policeman tried to beat out the flames and fell through the window into the yard on top of the family dog, who startled, jumped up and raced out into the street, where an oncoming car swerved to avoid it and smashed into the parked police car and set it on fire. Meanwhile the burning
drapes had spread to the walls and the entire house was blazing.
Neighbors had called the fire department and the arriving fire-truck had started raising his ladder as they were halfway down the street. The rising ladder tore out the overhead wires and put out the electricity and disconnected the telephones in a ten-square city block area.
Time passed... Both men were discharged from the hospital, the house was re-built, the police acquired a new car, and all was right with their world -------
About a year later they were watching TV and the weatherman announced a cold snap for that night. The husband asked his wife if she thought they should bring in their plants for the night. She shot him.


Birth Control Pill
Sadie: Doctor, write for me a prescription for birth control pills.
Doctor: You're in your eighties, you don't need them. 
Sadie: I know what I need, write for me please the prescription.
The doctor gives her the prescription. Several weeks later she is again in the doctor's office.
Doctor: So how are you feeling Sadie?
Sadie: I feel wonderful. Now I sleep like a baby. Thank you for the pills.
Doctor: But those were birth control pills, not sleeping pills.
Sadie: Listen to me. Every morning I put one in my granddaughter's orange juice, and now I can sleep like a baby.


Collectibles
Showing his friend around his home, Myrddin started to point out all of the collectibles he and his wife had acquired over their long years of marriage. "The day before I die, I'd like to sell every piece we've got just to see how much it's all worth."
"But you couldn't possibly know the day before you were going to die, so how could you sell it."
"Simple: If I sell it, my wife would kill me!"


Memory Clinic
Two elderly couples were enjoying friendly conversation when one of the men asked the other, "Fred, how was the memory clinic you went to last month?" 
"Outstanding," Fred replied. "They taught us all the latest psychological techniques-visualization, association - it has made a big difference for me." 
"That's great! What was the name of that clinic?" 
Fred went blank. He thought and thought but couldn't remember. Then a smile broke across his face and he asked, "What do you call that flower with the long stem and thorns?" 
"You mean a rose?" 
"Yes, that's it!" He turned to his wife..."Rose, what was the name of that clinic?


Questions 
A veterinarian was feeling ill and went to see her doctor. The doctor asked her all the usual questions, about symptoms, how long had they been occurring, etc., when she interrupted him, "I'm a veterinarian and I don't need to ask my patients these kind of questions. I can tell what's wrong just by looking." She smugly added, "Why can't you?" 
The doctor nodded, stood back, and looked her up and down. He then quickly wrote out a prescription, handed it to her and said, "There you are. Of course, if that doesn't work, then we'll just have to have you put to sleep."


Rare Pottery
In front of a delicatessen, an art connoisseur noticed a mangy little kitten lapping up milk from a saucer. The saucer, he realized with a start, was a rare and precious piece of pottery. He strolled into the store and offered two dollars for the cat. 
"It's not for sale," said the proprietor.
"Look," said the collector, "that cat is dirty and undesirable, but I'm eccentric. I like cats that way. I'll raise my offer to ten dollars." 
"It's a deal," said the proprietor, and pocketed the ten on the spot.
"For that sum I'm sure you won't mind throwing in the saucer," said the connoisseur. "The kitten seems so happy drinking from it."
"Nothing doing," said the proprietor firmly. "That's my lucky saucer. From that saucer, so far this week I've sold 34 cats."




<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<cesDoc xmlns="http://www.xces.org/schema/2003" version="1.0.4">
<text>
<body>
<head type="title">Offbeat Joke</head>
<p>
A musician who joined an orchestra on a cruise ship was having a terrible time keeping time with the rest of the band.
Finally, the band leader said, "Look, either you learn to keep time or I'll throw you overboard. It's up to you, sync or swim."
The Human Race Is Doomed
In case you needed further proof that the Human Race is doomed through stupidity, here are some actual label instructions on consumer products; 
1. On a blanket from Taiwan - 
NOT TO BE USED AS PROTECTION FROM A TORNADO. 
2. On a helmet mounted mirror used by US cyclists - 
REMEMBER, OBJECTS IN THE MIRROR ARE ACTUALLY BEHIND YOU. 
3. On a Taiwanese shampoo - 
USE REPEATEDLY FOR SEVERE DAMAGE. 
4. On the bottle-top of a (UK) flavoured milk drink - 
AFTER OPENING, KEEP UPRIGHT. 
5. On a New Zealand insect spray - 
THIS PRODUCT NOT TESTED ON ANIMALS. 
6. In a US guide to setting up a new computer - 
TO AVOID CONDENSATION FORMING, ALLOW THE BOXES TO WARM UP TO ROOM TEMPERATURE EFORE OPENING. (Sensible, but the instruction was INSIDE the box.) 
7. On a Japanese product used to relieve painful haemorrhoids 
LIE DOWN ON BED AND INSERT POSCOOL SLOWLY UP TO THE PROJECTED PORTION LIKE A SWORD-GUARD INTO ANAL DUCT. WHILE INSERTING POSCOOL FOR APPROXIMATELY 5 MINUTES, KEEP QUIET. 
8. In some countries, on the bottom of Coke bottles - 
OPEN OTHER END. 
9. On a packet of Sunmaid raisins - 
WHY NOT TRY TOSSING OVER YOUR FAVOURITE BREAKFAST CEREAL? 
10. On a Sears hairdryer - 
DO NOT USE WHILE SLEEPING. 
11. On a bag of Fritos - 
YOU COULD BE A WINNER! NO PURCHASE NECESSARY. DETAILS INSIDE. (The shoplifter special!) 
12. On a bar of Dial soap - 
DIRECTIONS - USE LIKE REGULAR SOAP. (And that would be how?) 
13. On Tesco's Tiramisu dessert (printed on bottom of the box) 
DO NOT TURN UPSIDE DOWN. (Too late! You lose!) 
14. On Marks & Spencer Bread Pudding - 
PRODUCT WILL BE HOT AFTER HEATING. (Are you sure? Let's experiment.) 
15. On a Korean kitchen knife - 
WARNING KEEP OUT OF CHILDREN. (Dammit! Who are they to tell me what to do with my kids?) 
16. On a string of Chinese-made Christmas lights - 
FOR INDOOR OR OUTDOOR USE ONLY. (As opposed to....?) 
17. On a Japanese food processor - 
NOT TO BE USED FOR THE OTHER USE. (Now I'm curious.) 
18. On Sainsbury's peanuts - 
WARNING - CONTAINS NUTS. (Really? Peanuts contain nuts?) 
19. On an American Airlines packet of nuts 
INSTRUCTIONS - OPEN PACKET, EAT NUTS. (I'm glad they cleared that up.) 
20. On a Swedish chainsaw - 
DO NOT ATTEMPT TO STOP CHAIN WITH YOUR HANDS OR GENITALS. (What kind of consumer phone-call led to this warning?) 
21. On a child's superman costume - 
WEARING OF THIS GARMENT DOES NOT ENABLE YOU TO FLY. (That's right, destroy a universal childhood fantasy!) 
22. On some frozen dinners 
SERVING SUGGESTION: DEFROST. 
23. On a hotel provided shower cap in a box 
FITS ONE HEAD. 
24. On packaging for a Rowenta iron 
DO NOT IRON CLOTHES ON BODY. 
25. On Boot's "Children's" cough medicine 
DO NOT DRIVE CAR OR OPERATE MACHINERY. 
26. On Nytol sleep aid 
WARNING MAY CAUSE DROWSINESS. (Duh!)
</p>

<head type="title">Guess the sex of the originator of this one!! </head>
<p>Scholars have long debated the exact ethnicity and nationality of Jesus. 
Recently, at a theological meeting in Rome, scholars had a heated debate on this subject. 
One by one, they offered their evidence... </p>
<p>THREE PROOFS THAT JESUS WAS MEXICAN 
1. His first name was Jesus 
2. He was bilingual 
3. He was always being harassed by the authorities</p>
<p> 
But then there were equally good arguments that...
JESUS WAS BLACK 
1. He called everybody "brother" 
2. He liked Gospel 
3. He couldn't get a fair trial </p>
<p>
Then there were equally good arguments that...
JESUS WAS JEWISH 
1. He went into His Father's business 
2. He lived at home until he was 33 
3. He was sure his Mother was a virgin, and his Mother was sure he was 
God </p>
<p>
Then there were equally good arguments that... 
JESUS WAS ITALIAN 
1. He talked with his hands 
2. He had wine with every meal 
3. He used olive oil</p>
<p> 
Then there were equally good arguments that... 
JESUS WAS A CALIFORNIAN 
1. He never cut his hair 
2. He walked around barefoot 
3. He started a new religion</p>
<p> 
Then there were equally good arguments that... 
JESUS WAS IRISH 
1. He never got married 
2. He was always telling stories 
3. He loved green pastures </p>
<p>
But perhaps the most compelling evidence ... 
THREE PROOFS THAT JESUS WAS A WOMAN ... 
1. He had to feed a crowd at a moment's notice when there was no food 
2. He kept trying to get the message across to a bunch of men who JUST DIDN'T GET IT. 
3. Even when He was dead, He had to get up because there was more work for him to do
</p>
</body>
</text>
</cesDoc>
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<cesDoc xmlns="http://www.xces.org/schema/2003" version="1.0.4">
<text>
<body>
<head type="title">Dam it..</head>
<p>
"No, I didn't actually build this one," said the beaver to the rabbit, as they stared up at the immense bulk of the Hydro-Electric Power Dam, "but it's based on an idea of mine."
</p>

<head type="title">DUMB SPORTS QUOTES </head>
<p>"And here's Moses Kiptanui, the 19 year old Kenyan, who turned 20 a few weeks ago." (David Coleman) 
"Its a great advantage to be able to hurdle with both legs" (David Coleman) 
Jimmy Hill: "Don't sit on the fence Terry. What chance do you think Germany has of getting through?" Terry Venables: "I think it's 50-50." 
"There is Brendan Foster, by himself, with 20,000 people." (David Coleman) 
"The lead car is absolutely unique, except for the one behind it which is identical." (Murray Walker) 
"I owe a lot to my parents, especially my mother and father." (Greg Norman) 
"There have been injuries and deaths in boxing, but none of them serious." (Alan Minter) 
"Watch the time. It gives you an indication of how fast they are running." (Ron Pickering) 
"That's inches away from being millimeter perfect." (Ted Lowe) 
"The Queen's Park Oval, exactly as its name suggests, is absolutely round." (Tony Crozier)
</p>

<head type="title">How's that again??</head>
<p>In the Opera 'Tosca', Mario (under sentence of death) sings this song. The translation offered below seems to lose a little of the 'flowing charm' of the original Italian. Yes??
The stars were shining...the dirt smelt 
sweet...and the garden gate needs oiling. 
A footstep brushed the sand and my lover, 
who smells, tripped and I caught her. 
Oh, soft kisses, tender caresses, send me 
into seizures while I discover her face. 
My dream of love is vanished forever, that 
time is gone and my despair is killing me. 
Boy, do I love being alive.
</p>

<head type="title">New Commandments</head>
<p>The following statements about the Bible were written by children and have not been retouched or corrected.
1. The seventh commandment is thou shalt not admit adultery.
2. A Christian should have only one spouse. This is called monotony.
3. Adam and Eve were created from an apple tree.
4. Noah's wife was called Joan of Ark.
5. Lot's wife was a pillar of salt by day, but a ball of fire by night.
6. The Jews were a proud people and throughout history they had trouble with unsympathetic Genitals.
7. Moses led the Hebrews to the Red Sea, where they made unleavened bread, which is bread without any ingredients.
8. The first commandment was when Eve told Adam to eat the apple.
9. Moses died before he ever reached Texas.
10. Then Joshua led the Hebrews in the battle of Geritol.
11. The greatest miracle in the Bible is when Joshua told his son to stand still and he obeyed him.
12. David was a Hebrew king skilled at playing the liar. He fought with the Finklesteins, a race of people who lived in Biblical times.
13. Solomon, one of David's sons, had 300 wives, and 700 porcupines.
14. Jesus was born because Mary had an immaculate contraption.
15. Jesus enunciated the Golden Rule, which says to do one to others before they do one to you.
</p>

<head type="title">Dress Sense</head>
<p>Employed by the human-development center of a larger corporation, a young woman trains employees in proper dress codes and etiquette. One day as she was stepping onto the elevator, a man casually dressed in jeans and a golf shirt got on with her. Thinking of her responsibilities, she scolded, "Dressed a little casually today, aren't we?"
The man shrugged, "Yeah, well, that's one benefit of owning the company."
</p>

<head type="title">True</head>
<p>"A couple of months research in the laboratory can save a couple of hours research in the library." -Westheimer's Discovery
"Gravity cannot be held responsible for two people falling in love." -Albert Einstein</p>

<head type="title">Secret to Success
Helen and Amanda were discussing their busy schedules.
Helen said, "Amanda, I must ask you something. Every day I feel incredibly run down and tired. And yet, I see you looking as fresh as a rose. I have to know: what's your secret?"
"My secret? Every morning, without fail, I wake up at six o'clock sharp."
"You wake up at six o'clock?"
"Yes, and then I look at the clock, see what time it is, and go back to sleep for another four hours."</p>

<head type="title">Take off the receiver</head>
<p>
I took a part time job as an opinion poll sampler. On my very first call, I introduced myself, "Hello, this is a telephone poll."
The man replied, "Yeeeah, and this is a street lamp!"</p>

<head type="title">Coma</head>
<p>
A pregnant Irish woman from Dublin gets in a car accident and falls into a deep coma. Asleep for nearly 6 months, when she wakes up she sees that she is no longer pregnant and frantically asks the doctor about her baby.
The doctor replies, "Ma'am you had twins! a boy and a girl. Your brother from Cork came in and named them." 
The woman thinks to herself, "Oh No, not my brother... he's an idiot!" She asks the doctor, "Well, what's the girl's name?" 
"Denise."
Wow, that's not a bad name, I like it! What's the boy's name?" "Denephew."</p>

<head type="title">The plane crash</head>
<p>
Ireland's worst air disaster occurred today when a small 2-seater Cessna plane crashed into a 
cemetery this afternoon in central Ireland. Irish search and rescue workers have recovered 826 
bodies so far and expect that number to climb as digging continues into the night.</p>

<head type="title">Now hear this ...</head>
<p> 
Duct tape is like the Force. It has a light side & a dark side, and it holds the universe together. 
A closed mouth gathers no foot. 
Sex is like air. It's not important unless you aren't getting any. 
No one is listening until you make a mistake. 
Never test the depth of the water with both feet. 
It may be that your sole purpose in life is simply to serve as a warning to others. 
If you think nobody cares if you're alive, try missing a couple of car payments. 
If at first you don't succeed, skydiving is not for you. 
Give a man a fish and he will eat for a day. Teach him how to fish, and he will sit in a boat & drink beer all day.
If you lend someone $20, and never see that person again, it was probably worth it. 
Don't squat with your spurs on. 
If you tell the truth, you don't have to remember anything. 
Some days you are the bug, some days you are the windshield. 
Timing has an awful lot to do with the outcome of a rain dance. 
There are two theories to arguing with women. Neither one works. 
The best time to miss a train is at a crossing.
And, finally, never play leap frog with a unicorn.
</p>

</body>
</text>
</cesDoc>


Paradox ?

To put it simply, if the complexity of the human brain was simple enough to be understood, it would then be far too simple to understand the simplicity, do you understand?
Perspective
To a worm, digging in the hard ground is more appealing than going fishing.


Celebrating Religious Holidays
An atheist complained to a friend, "Christians have their special holidays, such as Christmas and Easter; and Jews celebrate their holidays, such as Passover and Yom Kippur; Muslims have their holidays. EVERY religion gets holidays. But we atheists," he said, "have no recognized national holidays. It's an unfair discrimination."
His friend replied, "Well... Why don't you celebrate April first?"


Skydiving
Liam had left Dublin to go up to Belfast for a bit of skydiving. Late Sunday evening he was found in a tree by a farmer. "What happened?" said the farmer.
Liam replied that his parachute had failed to open.
"Well," said the farmer, "if you had of asked the locals before you jumped, they would have told you nothing opens here on a Sunday."


This is Heaven
This 85 year old couple, having been married almost 60 years, had died in a car crash. They had been in good health the last ten years, mainly due to her interest in health food and exercise. When they reached the pearly gates, St. Peter took them to their mansion which was decked out with a beautiful kitchen and master bath suite and Jacuzzi. As they "oohed and aahed" the old man asked Peter how much all this was going to cost. "It's free," Peter replied, "this is Heaven."
Next they went out back to survey the championship golf course that the home backed up to. They would have golfing privileges everyday and each week the course changed to a new one representing the great golf courses on earth. The old man asked, "What are the green fees?" Peter's reply, "This is heaven, you play for free."
Next they went to the club house and saw the lavish buffet lunch with the cuisine's of the world laid out. "How much to eat?" asked the old man. "Don't you understand yet? This is heaven, it is free!" Peter replied with some exasperation. 
"Well, where are the low fat and low cholesterol tables?" the old man asked timidly. Peter lectured, "That's the best part...you can eat as much as you like of whatever you like and you never get fat and you never get sick. This is Heaven." 
With that the old man went into a fit of anger, throwing down his hat and stomping on it and shrieking wildly. Peter and his wife both tried to calm him down, asking him what was wrong. The old man looked at his wife and said, "This is all your fault. If it weren't for your darn bran muffins, I could have been here ten years ago!"


Age
I am sitting here thinking how nice it is that wrinkles don't hurt.
The golden years: When actions creak louder than words
The older you get, the better you get, (unless you're a banana)
Age is an issue of mind over matter. If you don't mind, ...then it just doesn't matter. - Mark Twain


The Service
Our old friend Gladys attended church services one particular Sunday. The sermon seemed to go on forever, and many in the congregation fell asleep.
After the service, to be social, she walked up to a very sleepy looking gentleman, in an attempt to revive him from his stupor, extended her hand in greeting, and said, "Hello, I'm Gladys Dunn."
To which the wakening gentleman replied, "You're not the only one!"


There's a Noise
One night, a lady stumbled into the police station with a black eye. She claimed she heard a noise in her back yard and went to investigate. The next thing she knew, she was hit in the eye and knocked out cold.
An officer was sent to her house to investigate, and he returned 1-1/2 hours later with a black eye. "Did you get hit by the same person?" his captain asked.
"No," he replied. "I stepped on the same rake."


Behind the Wheel
Although this married couple enjoyed their luxury fishing boat together, it was the husband who was behind the wheel operating the boat. He was concerned about what might happen in an emergency. So one day out on the lake he said to his wife, "Please take the wheel, dear. Pretend that I am having a heart attack. You must get the boat safely to shore." 
So she drove the boat to shore.
That evening, the wife walked into the living room where her husband was watching television. She sat down next to him, reached for the remote and switched the TV channel, then said to him, "Pretend I'm having a heart attack. Please go into the kitchen, dear. You must cook the meal, set the places, and then get the dinner safely to the table"


The Wet Rabbit
A woman walks into a vet's waiting room. She's dragging a very wet rabbit on a leash. The rabbit does not want to be there.
"Sit, Fluffy," she says. Fluffy glares at her, and sopping wet, jumps up on another customer's lap, getting water all over his knees.
"I said sit, now there's a good Fluffy," says the woman, slightly embarrassed. Fluffy squats in the middle of the room and urinates.
The woman, mortally embarrassed, shouts, "Fluffy, will you be good?!" Fluffy then starts a fight with a Doberman and pursues it out of the office.
As the woman leaves to go after it, she turns to the rest of the flabbergasted customers and apologises: "Look, I'm sorry, but I've just washed my hare, and I can't do a thing with it!"


Relationship Education For Men
Whatsamatta University's Seminars For Men Fall Catalogue
Once again, the female staff at Whatsamatta University will be offering courses for men of all marital status in an attempt to help males and females understand each other better.
Attendance in at least 10 of the following is required. 
1. Combating Stupidity 
2. You Too Can Do Housework 
3. PMS - Learn When To Keep Your Mouth Shut 
4. How To Properly Fill An Ice Tray 
5. We Do Not Want Sleazy Underwear For Christmas (Just Give Us Credit Cards) 
6. Understanding The Female Response To Coming Home Drunk At 4:00am 
7. Wonderful Laundry Techniques (formerly called "Don't Wash My Silks") 
8. Parenting Roles Beyond Initial Conception 
9. Get A Life - Learn To Cook 
10. How Not To Behave When You Are Obviously Wrong 
11. Spelling - Even You Can Get It Right 
12. Understanding Your Financial Incompetence 
13. You, The Weaker Sex 
14. Reasons To Give Flowers 
15. How To Stay Awake After Sex 
16. You Don't Really Need That Porsche After Thinning Hair And Mid-Life Crisis 
17. Garbage - Getting It To The Curb 
18. How To Tolerate Bras And Pantyhose Hanging In The Bathroom
19. You Cannot Always Wear Whatever You Damn Well Please 
20. How To Put Down A Toilet Seat (formerly called "No It's Not A Bidet") 
21. Give Me A Break - Why We Know Your Excuses Are Often Bull
22. How To Go Shopping With Your Mate Without Getting Lost 
23. The Remote Control - Overcoming Your Dependency 
24. Romanticism - Other Ideas Beyond Sex 
25. Helpful Posture Hints For Couch Potatoes 
26. Mother-in-Laws Are People Too 
27. The Weekend And Sports Are Not Synonymous 
28. How Not To Act Younger Than Your Children 
29. You Too Can Be A Designated Driver 
30. Male Bonding: Leave Your Friends At Home 
31. You Don't Look Like Mel Gibson, Especially When Naked 
32. Changing Your Underwear - It Really Works! 
33. Attainable Goal - Omitting Foul Expletives From Your Vocabulary



<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<cesDoc xmlns="http://www.xces.org/schema/2003" version="1.0.4">
<text>
<body>
<head type="title">I Don't Want to Scare You</head>
<p>
The little boy wasn't getting good marks in school. One day he made the teacher quite surprised. He tapped her on the shoulder and said... "I don't want to scare you, but my daddy says if I don't get better grades... somebody is going to get a spanking..."

<head type="title">Cat Proverbs</head>
<p>
"Managing senior programmers is like herding cats." --Dave Platt
"There is no snooze button on a cat who wants breakfast." --Unknown
"Thousands of years ago, cats were worshipped as gods. Cats have never forgotten this." --Anonymous
"Cats are smarter than dogs. You can't get eight cats to pull a sleigh through snow." --Jeff Valdez
"In a cat's eye, all things belong to cats." --English proverb
"As every cat owner knows, nobody owns a cat." --Ellen Perry Berkeley
"One cat just leads to another." --Ernest Hemingway
"Dogs come when they're called; cats take a message and get back to you later." --Mary Bly
"Cats are rather delicate creatures and they are subject to a good many ailments, but I never heard of one who suffered from insomnia." --Joseph Wood Krutch
"People who hate cats, will come back as mice in their next life."
</p>

<head type="title">A Dog Named Mace </head>
<p>A mechanic who worked out of his home had a dog named Mace. Mace had a bad habit of eating all the grass in the mechanic's lawn, so the mechanic had to keep Mace inside. The grass eventually became overgrown. 
One day the mechanic was working on a car in his back yard and dropped his wrench losing it in the tall grass. He couldn't find it for the life of him, so decided to call it a day. 
That night Mace escaped from the house and ate all the grass in the back yard. The next morning the mechanic went outside and saw his wrench glinting in the sunlight. 
Realizing what had happened he looked up the the heavens and proclaimed...... 
"A grazing Mace, how sweet the hound that saved a wrench for me!"
</p>

<head type="title">The Facts Of Life</head>
<p>* The 2 most common elements in the universe are hydrogen and stupidity.
* If at first you don't succeed, skydiving is not for you.
* Money can't buy happiness...But it sure makes misery easier to live with.
* Psychiatrists say that 1 of 4 people are mentally ill. Check 3 friends. If they're OK, you're it.
* Nothing in the known universe travels faster than a bad check.
* A truly wise man never plays leapfrog with a unicorn.
* It has recently been discovered that research causes cancer in rats.
* Always remember to pillage BEFORE you burn.
* If you are given an open-book exam, you will forget your book.
COROLLARY: If you are given a take-home test, you will forget where you live.
* The trouble with doing something right the first time is that nobody appreciates how difficult it was.
* It may be that your sole purpose in life is simply to serve as a warning to others.
* Paul's Law: You can't fall off the floor.
* Paranoids are people, too; they have their own problems. It's easy to criticize, but if everybody hated you, you'd be paranoid, too.
* A diplomat is someone who can tell you to go to hell and make you feel happy to be on your way.
* Vital papers will demonstrate their vitality by moving from where you left them to where you can't find them.
* Law of Probability Dispersal: Whatever it is that hits the fan will not be evenly distributed.
</p>

<head type="title">Wise Investing</head>
<p>A young man asked an old rich man how he made his money.
The old guy fingered his worsted wool vest and said, "Well, son, it was 1932. The depth of the Great Depression. I was down to my last nickel. I invested that nickel in an apple. I spent the entire day polishing the apple and, at the end of the day, I sold the apple for ten cents.
The next morning, I invested those ten cents in two apples. I spent the entire day polishing them and sold them at 5:00 pm for 20 cents. I continued this system for a month, by the end of which I'd accumulated a fortune of $1.37.
Then my wife's father died and left us two million dollars."
</p>

<head type="title">The New Hunter</head>
<p>It was Saturday morning as Jake, an avid hunter, woke up ready to go bag the first deer of the season. He walked down to the kitchen to get a cup of coffee, and to his surprise he found his wife, Alice, sitting there, fully dressed in camouflage. Jake asked her, "What are you up to?" 
Alice smiled. "I'm going hunting with you!"
Jake, though he had many reservations about this, reluctantly decided to take her along. Later they arrived at the hunting site. Jake set his wife safely up in the tree stand and told her, "If you see a deer, take careful aim and I'll come running back as soon as I hear the shot."
Jake walked away with a smile on his face knowing that Alice couldn't bag an elephant, much less a deer. Not 10 minutes passed when he was startled as he heard an array of gunshots.
Quickly, Jake ran back. As Jake got closer to her stand, he heard Alice screaming: "Get away from my deer!"
Confused, Jake raced faster towards his screaming wife. And again he heard her yell: "Get away from my deer!" followed by another volley of gunfire!
Now within sight of where he had left his wife, Jake was surprised to see a cowboy, with his hands high in the air. 
The cowboy, obviously distraught, said, "Okay, lady, okay!!!! You can have your deer!!! Just let me get my saddle off it first!"
</p>

<head type="title">Out of the mouths of babes...</head>
<p>While working for an organization that delivers lunches to elderly shut-ins, I used to take my four-year-old daughter on my afternoon rounds.
She was unfailingly intrigued by the various appliances of old age, particularly the canes, walkers and wheelchairs.
One day I found her staring at a pair of false teeth soaking in a glass. As I braced myself for the inevitable barrage of questions, she merely turned and whispered, "The tooth fairy will never believe this!"
</p>
</body>
</text>
</cesDoc>
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<cesDoc xmlns="http://www.xces.org/schema/2003" version="1.0.4">
<text>
<body>
<head type="title">Rabbits</head>
<p>
A young cook decided that the French would enjoy feasting on rabbits and decided to raise rabbits in Paris and sell them to the finer restaurants in the city. He searched all over Paris seeking a suitable place to raise his rabbits. None could be found.
Finally, an old priest at the cathedral said he could have a small area behind the rectory for his rabbits. He successfully raised a number of them, and when he went about Paris selling them, a restaurant owner asked him where he got such fresh rabbits.
The young man replied, "I raise them myself, near the cathedral. In fact, I have ... a hutch back of Notre Dame."

<head type="title">360 Circle</head>
<p>
The air controller, working a busy pattern, told the 727 on downwind to make a three-sixty (do a complete circle, usually to provide spacing between aircraft).
The pilot of the 727 complained, "Do you know it costs us two thousand dollars to make a three-sixty in this airplane?
Without missing a beat the controller replied, "Roger, give me four thousand dollars worth!"
</p>

<head type="title">Made it to Heaven?</head>
<p>A woman was worried whether or not her dead husband made it to heaven, so she decided to try to contact his spirit by having a seance.
Sure enough, after the usual mumbo-jumbo of calling to the spirits, her husband's voice was heard answering, "Helloooooo Margaret, this is meeee..."
"Fred," she answered. I just have to know if you're happy there in the afterlife. What's it like there?"
"Ooooooh, it's much more beautiful here than I ever imagined," Fred answered. "The sky is bluer, the air is cleaner, and the pastures are much more lush and green than I ever expected. And the only thing we do, all day long, are eat and sleep, eat and sleep, oooover and oooooooover."
"Thank God, you made it to heaven," his wife cried.
"Heaven?: Heaven?" he answered. "What heaven? I'm now a buffalo in Montaaaaaaaana."
</p>

<head type="title">Guy-talk demystified.</head>
<p>"I'M GOING FISHING":
Translation: "I'm going to drink myself dangerously stupid, and stand by a stream with a stick in my hand, while the fish swim by in complete safety."
"IT'S A GUY THING"
Translation: "There is no rational thought pattern connected with it, and you have no chance at all of making it logical."
"CAN I HELP WITH DINNER?"
Translation: "Why isn't it already on the table?"
"UH HUH, SURE HONEY, OR YES DEAR"
Translation: Quite meaningless. It's a conditioned response.
"IT WOULD TAKE TOO LONG TO EXPLAIN"
Translation: "I have no idea how it works."
"I WAS LISTENING TO YOU. IT'S JUST THAT I HAVE THINGS ON MY MIND"
Translation: "I was wondering if that redhead over there is wearing a bra."
"TAKE A BREAK HONEY, YOU'RE WORKING TOO HARD"
Translation: "I can't hear the game over the vacuum cleaner"
"THAT'S INTERESTING DEAR"
Translation: "Are you still talking?"
"YOU KNOW HOW BAD MY MEMORY IS"
Translation: "I remember the theme song to F Troop, the address of the first girl I ever kissed and the vehicle identification numbers of every car I've ever owned,.... but I forgot your birthday."
"I WAS JUST THINKING ABOUT YOU, AND GOT YOU THESE ROSES"
Translation: "The girl selling them was a real babe"
"OH, DON'T FUSS, I JUST CUT MYSELF, IT'S NO BIG DEAL"
Translation: " I have actually severed a limb, but will bleed to death before I admit that I'm hurt."
"HEY, I'VE GOT MY REASONS FOR WHAT I'M DOING."
Translation: "And I sure hope I can think of some pretty soon."
"I CAN'T FIND IT"
Translation: " It didn't fall into my outstretched hands, so I'm completely clueless."
"WHAT DID I DO THIS TIME?"
Translation: "What did you catch me at?"
"I HEARD YOU"
Translation: "I haven't the foggiest clue what you just said, and am hoping desperately that I can fake it well enough so that you don't spend the next 3 days yelling at me."
"YOU LOOK TERRIFIC"
Translation: "Oh, God, please don't try on one more outfit, I'm Starving."
"I'M NOT LOST. I KNOW EXACTLY WHERE WE ARE."
Translation: "No one will ever see us alive again."
"WE SHARE THE HOUSEWORK"
Translation: "I make the messes, she cleans them up."
</p>

<head type="title"></head>
<p>The Letter
This is an actual letter sent to a bank in the US. The bank thought it amusing enough to publish it in the New York Times.
Dear Sir,
I am writing to thank you for bouncing the cheque with which I endeavoured to pay my plumber last month. By my calculations some three nanoseconds must have elapsed between his presenting the cheque, and the arrival in my account of the funds needed to honour it. I refer, of course, to the automatic monthly deposit of my entire salary, an arrangement which, I admit, has only been in place for eight years. You are to be commended for seizing that brief window of opportunity, and also for debiting my account with $50 by way of penalty for the inconvenience I caused your bank.
My thankfulness springs from the manner in which this incident has caused me to re-think my errant financial ways. You have set me on the path of fiscal righteousness. No more will our relationship be blighted by these unpleasant incidents, for I am restructuring my affairs in 2000, taking as my model the procedures, attitudes and conduct of your very bank. I can think of no greater compliment, and I know you will be excited and proud to hear it. To this end, please be advised about the following:
First, I have noticed that whereas I personally attend to your telephone calls and letters, when I try to contact you I am confronted by the impersonal, ever-changing, pre-recorded, faceless entity which your bank has become.
From now on I, like you, choose only to deal with a flesh and blood person. My mortgage and loan repayments will, therefore and hereafter, no longer be automatic, but will arrive at your bank, by cheque, addressed personally and confidentially to an employee of your branch, whom you must nominate. You will be aware that it is an offence under the Postal Act for any other person to open such an envelope. 
Please find attached an Application Contact Status which I require your chosen employee to complete. I am sorry it runs to eight pages, but in order that I know as much about him or her as your bank knows about me, there is no alternative.
Please note that all copies of his or her medical history must be countersigned by a Justice of the Peace, and that the mandatory details of his/her financial situation (income, debts, assets and liabilities) must be accompanied by documented proof. In due course I will issue your employee with a PIN number which he/she must quote in all dealings with me.
I regret that it cannot be shorter than 28 digits but, again, I have modeled it on the number of button presses required to access my account balance on your phone bank service. As they say, imitation is the sincerest form of flattery.
Let me level the playing field even further by introducing you to my new telephone system, which you will notice, is very much like yours. My Authorised Contact at your bank, the only person with whom I will have any dealings, may call me at any time and will be answered by an automated voice. By pressing Buttons on the phone, he/she will be guided through an extensive set of menus: 
1. To make an appointment to see me.
2. To query a missing repayment.
3. To make a general complaint or inquiry.
4. To transfer the call to my living room in case I am there; Extension of living room to be communicated at the time the call is received.
5. To transfer the call to my bedroom in case I am sleeping; Extension of bedroom to be communicated at the time the call is received.
6. To transfer the call to my toilet in case I am attending to nature; Extension of toilet to be communicated at the time the call is received.
7. To transfer the call to my mobile phone in case I am not at home.
8. To leave a message on my computer. To leave a message a password to access my computer is required. Password will be communicated at a later date to the contact.
9. To return to the main menu and listen carefully to options 1 to 25 The contact will then be put on hold, pending the attention of my automated answering service. While this may on occasion involve a lengthy wait, uplifting music will play for the duration. 
This month I've chosen a refrain from The Best Of Woody Guthrie:
......."Oh, the banks are made of marble
....... With a guard at every door
....... And the vaults are filled with silver
....... That the miners sweated for"
After twenty minutes of that, our mutual contact will probably know it off by heart.
On a more serious note, we come to the matter of cost. As your bank has often pointed out, the ongoing drive for greater efficiency comes at a cost, a cost which you have always been quick to pass on to me. Let me repay your kindness by passing some costs back. First, there is the matter of advertising material you send me. This I will read for a fee of $20/page. Enquiries from your nominated contact will be billed at $5 per minute of my time spent in response.
Any debits to my account, as, for example, in the matter of the penalty for the dishonoured cheque, will be passed back to you. My new phone service runs at 75 cents a minute (even Woody Guthrie doesn't come free), so you would be well advised to keep your enquiries brief and to the point. Regrettably, but again following your example, I must also levy an establishment fee to cover the setting up of this new arrangement.
Name
Your humble client.
</p>

<head type="title">Said in Court</head>
<p>These are things people actually said in court, word for word, taken down and now published by court reporters who had the torment of staying calm while these exchanges were actually taking place:
Q: What was the first thing your husband said to you when he woke that morning?
A: He said, "Where am I, Cathy?"
Q: And why did that upset you?
A: My name is Susan.
</p>

<head type="title">Q: And where was the location of the accident?</head>
<p>A: Approximately milepost 499.
Q: And where is milepost 499?
A: Probably between milepost 498 and 500.
</p>

<head type="title">Q: Did you blow your horn or anything?</head>
<p>A: After the accident?
Q: Before the accident.
A: Sure, I played for ten years. I even went to school for it.
</p>

<head type="title">Box Clever?</head>
<p>When I was a kid, we had a quicksand box in the back yard. Eventually I
was an only child. - Steven Wright
</p>

<head type="title">Due Credit</head>
<p>The trouble with doing something right the first time, is then that nobody
appreciates how difficult it was.
</p>

<head type="title">Ain't that so?</head>
<p>Paper is always strongest at the perforations.
</p>

<head type="title">A Straight line.</head>
<p>Laughter is the shortest distance between two people.
</p>




Going Down
There were these two guys out hiking when they came upon an old, abandoned mineshaft. Curious about its depth they threw in a pebble and waited for the sound of it striking the bottom, but they heard nothing. They went and got a bigger rock, threw it in and waited. Still nothing. They searched the area for something larger and came upon a railroad tie. With great difficulty, the two men carried it to the opening and threw it in. While waiting for it to hit bottom, a goat suddenly darted between them and leapt into the hole!
The guys were still standing there with astonished looks upon their faces from the actions of the goat when a man walked up to them. He asked them if they had seen a goat anywhere in the area and they said that one had just jumped into the mineshaft in front of them! 
The man replied, "Oh no. That couldn't be MY goat, my goat was tied to a railroad tie."


ARGUMENTS
A woman has the last word in any argument.
Anything a man says after that is the beginning of a new argument.


SUCCESS 
A successful man is one who makes more money than his wife can spend.
A successful woman is one who has found such a man.


Oral Cure
"I finally quit smoking by using the patch. I stuck the darn thing over my mouth." --Wendy Liebman

Perpetual Motion
When a cat is dropped, it always lands on its feet, and when toast is dropped, it always lands buttered side down. It has been proposed to strap giant slabs of hot buttered toast to the backs of hundreds of tethered cats; the two opposing forces will cause the cats to hover, spinning inches above the ground. Using the power generated by this giant buttered toast-cat array, a high-speed monorail could easily link New York with Chicago.


Pardon Me? 
A man goes into a drug store and asks the pharmacist if he can give him something to stop hiccups. The pharmacist promptly reaches out and slaps the man's face. (Whack!)
"What did you do that for?" the man asks.
"Well, you don't have the hiccups any more, do you?"
The man says, "Maybe not, but my missus out there in the car still does!"


Obsolescence 
"You know you're old when they've discontinued your blood type." --Phyllis Diller


Proof
A husband said to his wife, "No, of course I don't hate your relatives.
In actual fact, I like your mother-in-law a whole lot better than I like mine."


Pearly Whites
A tourist was admiring the necklace worn by a local Indian. 
"What is it made of?" she asked.
"Alligator's teeth," the Indian replied.
"I suppose," she said patronizingly, "that they mean as much to you as pearls do to us."
"Oh no," he objected. "Any fool can open an oyster."


No 'Gators Here
While sports fishing off the Florida coast, a tourist capsized his boat. He could swim, but his fear of alligators kept him clinging to the overturned craft. Spotting an old beachcomber standing on the shore, the tourist shouted, "are there any 'gators around here?!"
"Naw," the man hollered back, "Ain't been any for years!"
Feeling safe, the tourist started swimming toward the shore. As he got closer to shore he shouted to the guy again "What did you do to get rid of the 'gators?"
"We didn't do nothin'," the beachcomber said. "The sharks got 'em all."


Many Happy Returns? 
A man entered a stationery store and asked the clerk for a birthday/anniversary card.
The clerk replied, "We have birthday cards and we have anniversary cards. Why not take one of each?"
The man said, "You don't understand. I need a card that covers BOTH events! You see, we're celebrating the fifth anniversary of my wife's thirty-ninth birthday..."


Signs
Over a gynecologist's office: "Dr. Jones, at your cervix." 
On a plumber's truck: "We repair what your husband fixed." 
On the trucks of a local plumbing company in NE Pennsylvania: "Don't sleep with a drip. Call your plumber." 
Pizza shop slogan: "7 days without pizza makes one weak." 
Outside a muffler shop: "No appointment necessary. We hear you coming." 
In a veterinarian's waiting room: "Be back in 5 minutes. Sit! Stay!" 
Door of a plastic surgeon's office: "We can help you pick your nose!" 
On an electrician's truck: "Let us remove your shorts." 
In a non-smoking area: "If we see smoke, we will assume you are on fire and take appropriate action." 
On a maternity room door: "Push. Push. Push."


Holy Moses..
"Somebody recently figured out that we have enacted more than 35 million laws just to enforce the Ten Commandments." --Bert Masterson


Pistol Packing Momma! 
When my three-year-old son opened the birthday gift from his grandmother and found a water pistol. He squealed with delight and headed for the nearest sink. I was not so pleased. I turned to Mom and said, "I'm surprised at you. Don't you remember how we used to drive you crazy with water guns?"
Mom grinned and replied, "Yep, I remember."


Please Press The Hash Key
"For a list of all the ways technology has failed to improve the quality of life, please press 3." --Alice Kahn


The Ring of Truth
My next-door neighbor and I frequently borrow things from each other. Not long ago, when I requested his ladder, he told me he had lent it to his son. 
Recalling a saying my grandmother used to repeat, I recited, "You should never lend anything to your kids, because you will never get it back."
With that, he responded, "Ain't that the truth, it's not even my ladder. It's my dad's."


Not Strait Laced
I was sitting on the sofa with my teenage son, discussing his day at school. "Mom," he said, "there's going to be a dance at the school this Friday and it's going to be formal. So, could I get a new pair of sneakers?"


More of life's mysteries! 
Why don't you ever see the headline "Psychic Wins Lottery"? 
Why does the sun lighten our hair, but darken our skin? 
Why doesn't glue stick to the inside of the bottle? 
Why is "abbreviated" such a long word? 
Why is a boxing ring square? 
Why is it called lipstick if you can still move your lips? 
Why is it considered necessary to firmly nail down the lid of a coffin? 
Why is it that rain drops but snow falls? 
Why is it that to stop Windows 95, 98, 2000 and NT, you have to click on "Start"? 
Why is the man who invests all your money called a broker? 
Why is the time of day with the slowest traffic called rush hour? 
Why is the word dictionary in the dictionary? 
Why isn't there a special name for the tops of your feet? 
Can a stupid person be a smart-ass? 
Can fat people go skinny-dipping? 


Insex
I stopped at a friends house the other day and found him stalking around with a flyswatter.
When I asked if he had gotten any flies, he answered, "Yeah, 3 males and 2 females." 
Curious, I inquired as to how he could tell the difference.
He answered, "3 were on a beer can and 2 were on the phone."


Hare Hare
A young man was something of a slacker and found it difficult to hold down a job. After a visit to the employment office, he was offered work at the local zoo. When he arrived for his first day, the keeper, aware of his reputation, told him to take care of the tortoise section. 
Later, the keeper dropped by to see how the young man was doing and found him standing by an empty enclosure with the gate open. "Where are the tortoises?" he asked. 
"I can't believe it," said the new employee, "I just opened the door and whooosh, they were gone!"


Menu Fodder
Yogurt: Semi-solid dairy product made from partially evaporated and fermented milk. Yogurt is one of only three foods that taste exactly the same as they sound. The other two are goulash and squid.
Ask and you shall receive
All my life I said I wanted to be somebody...I can see now that I should have been more specific.


Lots of Bottle needed here
The Boy Scouts were out collecting bottles for a fund raising activity. One ambitious young man knocked on a door and a sour-faced, older lady came to the door and barked out, "What do you want, Sonny?"
"D-d-do you have any beer bottles for the Boy Scouts, ma'am?" 
"Look here, young man, do I look like the kind of lady who would drink beer?" replied the lady.
"S-s-sorry, Ma'am," was his reply. "W-w-what about vinegar bottles?"


Definition
Miser: A person who lives poor so that he can die rich.


International Understanding
The following is a telephone exchange between a hotel guest and room-service at a fine Japanese hotel.


Room Service (RS): Morny. Ruin sorbees.
Guest (G): Sorry, I thought I dialed room-service.
RS: Rye..Ruin sorbees..morny! Djewish to odor sunteen??
G: Uh, yes... I'd like some bacon and eggs.
RS: Ow July den?
G: What?
RS: Ow July den? Pry, boy, pooch?
G: Oh, the eggs! How do I like them? Sorry, scrambled please.
RS: Ow July dee bayhcem--crease?
G: Crisp will be fine.
RS: Hokay. An san tos?
G: What?
RS: San tos. July San tos?
G: I don't think so
RS: No? Judo one toes??
G: I feel really bad about this, but I don't know what "judo one toes means."
RS: Toes! toes! Why djew don juan toes? Ow bow singlish mopping we bother?
G: English muffin! I've got it! You were saying "Toast." Fine. Yes, an English muffin will be fine.
RS: We bother?
G: No, just put the bother on the side.
RS: Wad?
G: I mean butter--just put it on the side.
RS: Copy?
G: Sorry?
RS: Copy, tea, mill?
G: Yes. Coffee please, and that's all.
RS: One Minnie. Ass ruin torino fee, strangle ache, crease baychem, tossy singlish mopping we bother honey sigh, and copy--rye?
G: Whatever you say.
RS: Tendjewberrymud.
G: You're welcome.


Tusk,Tusk.
A jeweller watched as a huge truck pulled up in front of his store. The back came down and an elephant walked out. It broke one of the windows with its tusk and then, using its trunk like a vacuum cleaner sucked up all of the jewellery. The elephant then got back in the truck and it disappeared 
out of sight.
When the jeweller finally regained his senses he called the police. The detectives came and he told them his story. "Could you describe the elephant?" the cop asked.
"An elephant is an elephant," he replied. "You've seen one you've seen them all. What do you mean 'describe' him?"
"Well," said the policeman, "there are two types of elephants, African and Indian. The Indian elephant has smaller ears and is not as large as the African elephant."
"I can't help you out," said the frustrated jeweller, "he had a stocking pulled over his head."


Fowl Pun. 
The minister had just finished an excellent chicken dinner at the home of a member of his congregation. Sitting on the porch after dinner he saw a rooster come strutting through the yard. "That's certainly a proud-looking rooster you have there," the minister commented. 
"Yes sir," replied the farmer. "He has reason to be proud, one of his sons just entered the ministry!"


Canned? 
"There is one thing more exasperating than a spouse who can cook and won't, and that's a spouse who can't cook and will." 
- Anonymous


THE SENILITY PRAYER
"God grant me the senility to forget the people I never liked anyway, the good fortune to run into the ones that I do, and the eyesight to tell the difference."
Now that I'm 'older' (but refuse to grow up), here's what I've discovered:
ONE- I started out with nothing, and I still have most of it.
TWO- My wild oats have turned into prunes and All Bran.
THREE- I finally got my head together; now my body is falling apart.
FOUR- Funny, I don't remember being absent minded...
FOUR- Funny, I don't remember being absent minded...
FIVE- All reports are in; life is now officially unfair.
SIX- If all is not lost, where is it?
SEVEN- It is easier to get older than it is to get wiser.
EIGHT- Some days you're the dog; some days you're the hydrant.
NINE- I wish the buck stopped here; I sure could use a few...
TEN- Kids in the back seat cause accidents.
ELEVEN- Accidents in the back seat cause kids.
TWELVE- It's hard to make a comeback when you haven't been anywhere.
THIRTEEN- The only time the world beats a path to your door is when you're in the bathroom.
FOURTEEN- If God wanted me to touch my toes, he would have put them on my knees.
FIFTEEN- When I'm finally holding all the cards, why does everyone decide to play chess?
SIXTEEN- It's not hard to meet expenses... they're everywhere. 
SEVENTEEN- The only difference between a rut and a grave is the depth.
EIGHTEEN- These days, I spend a lot of time thinking about the hereafter...I go somewhere to get something and then wonder what I'm hereafter.
NINETEEN- I AM UNABLE TO REMEMBER IF I HAVE MAILED THIS TO YOU BEFORE OR NOT!
Where was I??


Ask and Ye Shall Receive
One day, three men were hiking and unexpectedly came upon a large raging, violent river. They needed to get to the other side, but had no idea of how to do so. The first man prayed to God, saying, "Please God, give me the strength to cross this river".
Poof! God gave him big arms and strong legs, and he was able to swim across the river in about two hours, after almost drowning a couple of times.
Seeing this, the second man prayed to God, saying, "Please God, give me the strength . and the tools to cross this river". 
Poof! God gave him a rowboat and he was able to row across the river in about an hour, after almost capsizing the boat a couple of times.
The third man had seen how this worked out for the other two, so he also prayed to God saying, "Please God, give me the strength and the tools... and the intelligence. to cross this river".
And poof! God turned him into a woman. She looked at the map, hiked upstream a couple of hundred yards, then walked across the bridge.


Reality Check
"What do you love most about me," a husband asked his wife, "My great athletic ability or my quick intellect?" 
"What I love most about you," responded the wife, "Is your enormous sense of humor."


A Pair of
Show me a man with both feet planted firmly on the ground and I'll show you a man who can't put on his pants.


Very Finny
Two fish are in a tank. One says to the other, "Do you know how to drive this thing?"


Value
She was reading a newspaper while her husband was engrossed in a game on TV. Suddenly, she burst out laughing. "Listen to this, there's an ad here where a guy is offering to swap his wife for a season ticket." 
"Hmmm," her husband said, not bothering to look away from his program. 
She said teasingly, "Would you swap me for season tickets?" 
"Absolutely not," he said, "the season's more than half over."







Eternal Truths
Once over the hill, you pick up speed.
I love cooking with wine. Sometimes I even put it in the food.
Whatever hits the fan will not be evenly distributed.
Everyone has a photographic memory. Some just don't have film.
Dogs have owners. Cats have staff.
If you're too open-minded, your brains will fall out.
If you must choose between two evils, pick the one you've never tried before.
My idea of housework is to sweep the room with a glance.
Not one shred of evidence supports the notion that life is serious.
A conscience is what hurts when all your other parts feel so good.
A balanced diet is a cookie in each hand.
Someone who thinks logically provides a nice contrast to the real world.


Donkey Deep
One day a farmer's donkey fell down into a well. The animal cried piteously
for hours as the farmer tried to figure out what to do.
Finally, he decided the animal was old and the well needed to be covered up anyway, so it just wasn't worth it to retrieve the donkey.
He invited all his neighbours to come over and help him. They all grabbed a shovel and began to shovel dirt into the well.
At first, the donkey realised what was happening and cried horribly.
Then, to everyone's amazement, he quieted down. A few shovel loads later, the farmer finally looked down the well and was astonished at what he saw. With every shovelful of dirt that hit his back, the donkey was doing something amazing. He would shake it off and take a step up. As the farmer's neighbours continued to shovel dirt on top of the animal, he would shake it off and take a step up.
Pretty soon, everyone was amazed as the donkey stepped up over the edge of the well and thoroughly kicked the guy that tried to bury him before trotting off!
Life is going to shovel dirt on you, all kinds of dirt. The trick to getting out of the well is to shake it off and take a step up.
Each of our troubles is a stepping stone. We can get out of the deepest wells just by not stopping, never giving up! 
Shake it off and take a step up!
Moral: When you try to cover your ass, it will usually come back to get you


Good Advice: 
The Japanese eat very little fat and suffer fewer heart attacks than the British or Americans.
On the other hand, the French eat a lot of fat and also suffer fewer heart attacks than the British or Americans.
The Japanese drink very little red wine and suffer fewer heart attacks than the British or Americans.
But the Italians drink excessive amounts of red wine and also suffer fewer heart attacks than the British or Americans.
Conclusion: Eat and drink what you like. It's speaking English that kills you.


Right On.
"If life was fair, Elvis would be alive and all the impersonators would be dead."


Johnny Carson
"Bigamy is having one wife/husband too many. Monogamy is the same."


Oscar Wilde
"When I die, I want to die like my grandfather who died peacefully in his sleep. Not yelling and screaming like all the other passengers in his car."


Jack Handy
"Instead of getting married again, I'm just going to find some woman I don't like and give her a house." - Steven Seagal
Advice for the day: If you have a lot of tension and you get a headache, do what it says on the aspirin bottle: "Take two aspirin" and "Keep away from children." - Roseanne


Hot Air
A man in a hot air balloon realized he was lost. He reduced altitude and spotted a woman below. He descended a bit more and shouted, "Excuse me, can you help me? I promised a friend I would meet him an hour ago, but I don't know where I am." 
The woman below replied, "You're in a hot air balloon hovering approximately 30 feet above the ground. You're between 40 and 41 degrees north latitude and between 59 and 60 degrees west longitude." 
"You must be an engineer," said the balloonist. "I am," replied the woman, "How did you know?" 
"Well," answered the balloonist, "everything you told me is, technically correct, but I've no idea what to make of your information, and the fact is I'm still lost. Frankly, you've not been much help at all. If anything, you've delayed my trip." 
The woman below responded, "You must be in Management." 
"I am," replied the balloonist, "but how did you know?" 
"Well," said the woman, "you don't know where you are or where you're going. You have risen to where you are due to a large quantity of hot air. You made a promise that you've no idea how to keep, and you expect people beneath you to solve your problems. The fact is you are in exactly the same position you were in before we met, but now, somehow, it's my fault."


Handey Hint
The face of a child can say it all, especially the mouth part of the face." -Jack Handey


Efficiency
"I just bought a microwave fireplace...You can spend a whole evening in front of it in only eight minutes." - Steven Wright


Wrong Tune
A guy walks into a bar with a small dog. The bartender says, "Get out of here with that dog!"
The guy says, "But this isn't just any dog... this dog can play the piano!"
The bartender replies, "Well, if he can play that piano, you both can stay... and have a drink on the house!"
So the guy sits the dog at the piano, and the dog starts playing ragtime, a little swing, some Gershwin. The bartender is amazed and patrons are enjoying the music when suddenly a bigger dog runs in, grabs the small dog by the scruff of the neck, and drags him out. The bartender asks the guy, "What was that all about?"
The guy replies, "Oh, that was his mother. She wants him to be a doctor."


Wired
Then there was the Indian chief who installed electric lights in the tribal latrine, and thus became the first Indian to wire a head for a reservation.


Dead Right
A hospital posted a notice in the nurses' station saying: "Remember, the first five minutes of a human being's life are the most dangerous."
And written underneath was, "The last few are pretty risky, too...."


It Ain't Fair
I've never understood why women love cats. Cats are independent, they don't listen, they don't come in when you call, they like to stay out all night, and when they are home they either want to be left alone and sleep, or they want to eat. In other words, all those things that women hate in a man, they love in a cat.


Too Fly
Two caterpillars are sitting on a leaf when a butterfly zooms by, startling them.
One turns to the other and says, "Boy, you'll never get ME up in one of them things."


Give it Eleven
"The English are not very spiritual people, so they invented cricket to give themselves some idea of eternity." -George Bernard Shaw


How's That? 
There are some people so addicted to exaggeration that they can't even tell the truth without lying." --Josh Billings


Dig this
"I don't see why they say marriage is the pits - all my marriages have worked fine." (Unknown)
Mom says.
"Every teenager should get a good high school education; even if they already know everything." 


Right on, Dad. 
"I told him, 'Son, what is it with you? Is it ignorance or apathy?'
He said, "Man, I don't know and I don't care."


Revelation or Evolution
One day, an ape escaped from the Zoo. They searched for him everywhere in every district. They announced his disappearance on the radio and television as well as in the newspapers, but no one reported seeing the ape.
At last, the ape was found in the Public Library. Officials of the zoo and the animal keepers were summoned to the library. They found the ape sitting at a desk in the reading room with two books spread out in front of him. The ape was reading with great concentration. One book was the Bible; the other was a book written by Darwin.
When the zookeepers asked the ape what he was doing, the ape replied, "I'm trying to figure out whether I am my brother's keeper or my keeper's brother."


Stretched Truth. 
Two guys who worked together were both laid off, so off they went to the unemployment office. When asked his occupation, the first guy said, "Panty stitcher...I sew the elastic onto women's panties."
The clerk looked up panty stitcher. Finding it classed as unskilled labor, she gave him $300 a week unemployment pay. 
The second guy was asked his occupation. "Diesel fitter," he replied. Diesel fitter is listed as a skilled job, so the clerk gave the second guy $600 a week.
When the first guy found out he was furious. He stormed into the office to find out why his friend and co-worker was collecting double his pay.
The clerk explained, "Panty stitchers are unskilled, but diesel fitters are skilled labor."
"What skill?!" yelled the panty stitcher. "I sew the elastic on and then he stretches it out tight and decides, Yep, dese'll fit 'er."


Unsettled ! 
"A bachelor is a selfish, undeserving guy who has cheated some woman out of a divorce." Don Quinn


Peace Insurance
Getting away from their high-stress work, a couple spend relaxing weekends in their motor home. Finding their peace and quiet disturbed by well-meaning, but unwelcome, visits from other campers, they devised a plan to assure themselves some privacy.
Now, when they set up camp, they place this sign on the door of their RV:
"Insurance agent. Ask about our whole of life package."


Detail
A man walked by a table in a hotel and noticed three men and a dog playing cards. The dog was exhibiting an extraordinary performance.
"That is one smart dog," the man commented.
"He's not that smart," said one of the losing players. "Every time he gets a good hand he wags his tail."


Sounds Fine to me. 
"What am I supposed to do with this?" grumbled a motorist as the policeman handed him a speeding ticket. 
"Keep it," the cop said, "then when you've collected four of them you get a bicycle."


Going, going.
Bidding at a local auction was proceeding furiously when the auctioneer suddenly announced, "A gentleman in this room has lost a wallet containing $10,000. He says that if it is returned, he will pay a reward of $2,000."
There was a moment's silence, and then from the back of the room came the cry, "Two, five!"


No Sweat
This guy says to his buddy, "You'll never believe what happened last night."
His buddy says, "Well then, tell me what happened."
The guy says, "Last night the doorbell rang, and when I opened the door, there was my ex-mother-in-law on the front porch."
She said, "Can I stay here for a few days?" 
I said, "Sure, of course you can," and shut the door.


Sid Said
"The guy who invented the first wheel was an idiot. The guy who invented the other three, HE was a genius." -Sid Caesar
Fact and Fallacy
Actions speak louder than words but the pen is mightier than the sword.
Look before you leap because he who hesitates is lost.
Many hands make light work while too many cooks spoil the broth.
Don't judge a book by its cover because clothes maketh the man.
Nothing ventured, nothing gained, is better safe than sorry.
The bigger, the better and the best things come in small packages.
Absence makes the heart grow fonder, out of sight, out of mind.
Life is what you make it, so what ever will be, will be.
Forewarned is forearmed so cross your bridges when you come to them.
What's good for the goose is good for the gander but one man's meat is another man's poison.
With age comes wisdom and out of the mouths of babes come all wise sayings.
Two's company, three's a crowd, the more, the merrier, but take no thought for tomorrow because a stitch in time saves nine!


A Different Slant..
The Italian government is considering installing a clock in the Leaning Tower of Pisa because, "What good is it to have the inclination if you don't have the time?"


Two rules for life: 
1. Don't tell people everything you know.
2.


For Thought
"Misers aren't much fun to live with, but they do make wonderful ancestors." - David Brenner
One Way To Get It In The Neck
"Most people are pretty scared of werewolves, but I bet if you saw one crying because the other wolves had made fun of him, you'd be like me and would probably feel sorry for him and try to pet him." 
"That was my first mistake." --Unknown


Under Done
Did you hear about the cheap skate vampire hunter? He tried to kill a vampire by driving a pork chop through its heart because steaks were too expensive.


Eloquence
A distinguished clergyman and a friend were playing golf. It was a very close match, and at the last hole the two were only one stroke apart. The clergyman teed up, addressed the ball, and swung his driver with great force...slicing the ball deep into the woods.
The clergyman glared, and bit his lip while his face turned crimson, but said nothing. His opponent watched him for a while and then remarked, "Reverend, that's the most profane silence I have ever heard."


Child Psychology
A teen-aged boy with spiked hair, nose ring and baggy clothes was overheard telling a friend, "I don't really like to dress like this, but it keeps my parents from dragging me everywhere with them."


Imprinting
Deep within a forest a little turtle began to climb a tree. After hours of effort he reached the top, jumped into the air waving his front legs and crashed to the ground. After recovering, he slowly climbed the tree again, jumped, and fell to the ground. The turtle tried again and again while a couple of birds sitting on a branch watched his sad efforts.
Finally, the female bird turned to her mate. "Dear," she chirped, "I really do think it's time to tell him he was adopted."


Quickies
"I know what men want. Men want to be really, really close to someone who will leave them alone." --Elayne Boosle"Men who have pierced ears are better prepared for marriage. They've experienced pain and bought jewellery." -Unknown 
"Remember that as a teenager you are in the last stage of your life in which you will be happy to hear that the phone is for you." -Fran Lebowitz


Sounds Reasonable to Me
What did the mama buffalo say to the little buffalo when he went off to college? 
"Bison."







Clean Joke
Waiter: "Tea or coffee, gentlemen?"
1st customer: "I'll have tea."
2nd customer: "Me, too. And be sure the glass is clean!"
(Waiter exits, returns)
Waiter: "Two teas. Now which one of you gentlemen wanted the clean glass?"


That's Easy! 
Q: How do you identify a bald eagle?
A: All of his feathers are combed to one side.


Subject: Little Known Facts 
1. Barbie's full name is Barbara Millicent Roberts
2. It is impossible to lick your elbow
3. A crocodile can't stick its tongue out
4. A shrimp's heart is in their head
5. People say "Bless you" when you sneeze because when you sneeze, your heart stops for a millisecond
6. In a study of 200,000 ostriches over a period of 80 years, no one reported a single case where an ostrich buried its head in the sand (or attempted to do so)
7. It is physically impossible for pigs to look up into the sky
8. A pregnant goldfish is called a twit 
9. Between 1937 and 1945 Heinz produced a version of Alphabetti Spaghetti especially for the German market that consisted solely of little pasta swastikas
10. By law, every child in Belgium must take harmonica lessons at Primary school
11. On average, a human being will have sex more than 3,000 times and spend two weeks kissing in their lifetime
12. More than 50% of the people in the world have never made or received a telephone call
13. Rats and horses can't vomit
14. The "sixth sick sheik's sixth sheep's sick" is said to be the toughest tongue twister in the English language
15. If you sneeze too hard, you can fracture a rib. If you try to suppress a sneeze, you can rupture a blood vessel in your head or neck and die. If you keep your eyes open by force, they will pop out
16. Rats multiply so quickly that in 18 months, two rats could have over a million descendants
17. Wearing headphones for just an hour will increase the bacteria in your ear by 700 times
18. If the government has no knowledge of aliens, then why does Title 14, Section 1211 of the Code of Federal Regulations, implemented on July 16, 1969, make it illegal for U.S. citizens to have any contact with extraterrestrials or their vehicles? 
19. In every episode of Seinfeld there is a Superman somewhere
20. The cigarette lighter was invented before the match
21. Thirty-five percent of the people who use personal ads for dating are already married
22. A duck's quack doesn't echo anywhere, and no one knows why
23. 23% of all photocopier faults worldwide are caused by people sitting on them and photocopying their buttocks
24. In the course of an average lifetime you will, while sleeping, eat 70 assorted insects and 10 spiders
25. Most lipstick contains fish scales
26. Cat's urine glows under a black light
27. Like fingerprints, everyone's tongue print is different.
Now, when was the last time you left your tongue print someplace, or tried to lick your elbow?


From Ashes to Ashes
Two widows were visiting in the lounge of the Seniors' Center.
"Well," one said, "Mary has just cremated her third husband."
"Yeah, that's the way it goes," replied the other widow. 
"Some of us can't find a husband, and others have husbands to burn!"


How To Wash the Cat
1. Thoroughly clean the toilet.
2. Lift both lids and add shampoo.
3. Find and soothe cat as you carry him to the bathroom.
4. In one swift move, place cat in toilet, close both lids and stand on top so cat cannot escape.
5. The cat will self agitate and produce ample suds. (Ignore ruckus from inside toilet. Cat is actually enjoying this).
6. Flush 3 or 4 times, this provides power rinse which is quite effective.
7. Have someone open outside door, stand as far from toilet as possible and quickly lift both lids.
8. Clean cat will rocket out of the toilet and outdoors, where he will air dry.
Sincerely, The Dog


New Arrivals
One day a Pope and a lawyer died and went to heaven. God came and said, "Follow me and I will give you your rooms."
So they both followed. First God gave the Pope his room; it was very small with a small bed and a small desk. "Thank you, thank you my lord," said The Pope.
Then God gave the lawyer his room; it was big room with a big bed and a big deck with a pool and a pretty woman. "Mr. God, why are you giving this room to me and the other little one to The Pope?" the lawyer asked.
"Well, popes we get regular as clockwork, but you're our first lawyer."


Prezackly! 
A Zen master once said to me, "Do the opposite of whatever I tell you." So I didn't. --Unknown
"My doctor tells me I suffer from extreme hypochondria. He prescribed a strong placebo, but I don't think it's working." -Fred Marcum
"The sooner you fall behind, the more time you'll have to catch up." --Unknown


You Gotta be Quick 
A New Yorker was being shown around the back country of Louisiana by his cousin. "Is it true that an alligator won't attack you if you carry a flashlight?" he asked. 
The cousin smirked, "Well thatall depends on how fast ya carry it."


Home on the Range
Two buffalo were standing on the range when a passing tourist said, "Those are the mangiest, scroungiest, most moth-eaten, miserable beasts I have ever seen."
One of the buffalo turned to the other and said, "You know, I think I just heard a discouraging word."


Fast Thinking
A wild dog is running through the jungle. While wandering about he notices a leopard heading in his direction with the intention of having lunch. The dog thinks, "Boy, now I'm in deep trouble."
Then he sees some bones on the ground close by, and immediately settles down to chew on the remains with his back to the approaching cat.
Just as the leopard is about to leap, the dog exclaims loudly, "Hey, that was one delicious leopard. I wonder if there are any more like that around here?"
Hearing this the leopard halts his attack in mid stride, and he slinks away into the trees. "Whew", says the leopard. "That was close. That dog could've nearly had me."
Meanwhile, a monkey who had been watching all this from a nearby tree, figures he can put this knowledge to good use and trade it for protection from the leopard. So, he goes chasing after the leopard. 
But the dog saw him heading after the leopard with great speed, and figured that something must be up.
The monkey soon catches up with the leopard, spills the beans and strikes a deal for himself with the leopard. The cat is furious at being made a fool of and says, "Here monkey, hop on my back and see what's going to happen to that smart aleck dog."
Now the dog sees the leopard coming with the monkey on his back, and thinks," What am I going to do now?"
But instead of running, the dog sits down with his back to his attackers pretending he hasn't seen them yet. And just when they get close enough to hear, the dog says, "Where's that cheeky monkey. I can never trust him. I sent him off half an hour ago to bring me a fresh leopard, and he's still not back!"


How it Pans Out
"The difference between involvement and commitment is like a ham and egg breakfast. The chicken was involved, but the pig was really committed!"


High Strikes
"Opera is when a guy gets stabbed in the back, and instead of bleeding, he sings." - Ed Gardner


High Living
A man goes into his local building supply store and orders 10,054 bricks.
"May I ask what you're building?" asks the man behind the counter.
"It's going to be a barbecue."
"Wow, that's a lot of bricks for one barbecue,"
"Not really; I live on the 12th floor."


Word Pundit Says.
1. Marathon runners with bad footwear suffer an agony of defeat.
2. What's the definition of a will? (It's a dead giveaway).
3. Time flies like an arrow. Fruit flies like a banana.
4. A backwards poet writes inverse.
5. In democracy it's your vote that counts. In feudalism it's your count that votes.
6. She had a boyfriend with a wooden leg, but broke it off.
7. A chicken crossing the road is poultery in motion.
8. If you don't pay your exorcist you get repossessed.
9. With her marriage she got a new name and a dress.
10. Show me a piano falling down a mineshaft and I'll show you A-flat minor.
11. When a clock is hungry it goes back four seconds.
12. The man who fell into an upholstery machine is fully recovered.
13. A bomb in a French kitchen would result in Linoleum Blownapart.
14. You feel stuck with your debt if you can't budge it.
15. Local Area Network in Australia: the LAN down under.
16. He often broke into song because he couldn't find the key.
17. Every calendar's days are numbered.
18. A lot of money is tainted. 'Taint yours and 'taint mine.
19. A boiled egg in the morning is hard to beat.
20. He had a photographic memory but it was never developed.
21. A plateau is a high form of flattery.
22. The short fortuneteller who escaped from prison became a small medium at large.
23. Those who get too big for their britches will be exposed in the end.
24. Once you've seen one shopping center you've seen a mall.
25. Those who jump off a Paris bridge are in Seine.
26. When an actress saw her first strands of grey hair she thought she'd dye.
27. Bakers trade bread recipes on a knead to know basis.
28. Santa's elves could be defined as subordinate clauses.


Take a Bough
Question. "If trees could scream, would we be quite so cavalier about cutting them down"?
Answer. "Well if they screamed all the time it would definitely make life a lot more comfortable to cut them all down." 


"Hey, Lady"
A lady was walking past a pet store when a parrot said, ''Hey, lady! You're really ugly!" She was understandably furious and continued on her way.
On the way home, she passed by the pet store again and the parrot once more said "Hey, lady! You're really ugly!" She was really ticked by now, so she went into the store and said that she would sue the store owner and strangle the bird. 
The store manager apologized profusely and promised he would make sure the parrot didn't say it again.
The next day, she deliberately passed by the store to test the parrot.
"Hey, lady!" it said. 
"Yes?"
"You know."


Reality Check
A student comes to a young professor's office after hours. She glances down the hall, closes his door, and kneels pleadingly. "I would do anything to pass this exam." 
She leans closer to him, flips back her hair, gazes meaningfully into his eyes. "I mean...", she whispers, "...I would do...ANYTHING." 
He returns her gaze. "Anything ?"
"*Anything*." 
His voice softens. "Anything ?"
"Anything." 
His voice turns to a husky whisper. "Would you ........... study?"


Spectacular Job
One day a man spotted a lamp by the roadside. He picked it up, rubbed it vigorously, and a genie appeared.
"I'll grant you your fondest wish," the genie said.
The man thought for a moment, then said, "I want a spectacular job --a job that no man has ever succeeded at or has ever even dared try."
"That's easy", said the genie. "Poof! You're a housewife."


Wisdom from the Top
"It's not me who can't keep a secret it's the people I tell that can't." - Lincoln
"I have found the best way to give advice to your children is to find out what they want and then advise them to do that." - Truman
"There's one thing about being a president - nobody can tell you when to sit down." - Eisenhower
"Things are more like they are now than they have ever been before." - Eisenhower


Dead Horse
The tribal wisdom of the North American Indians, passed on from one generation to the next, says that when you discover that you are riding a dead horse, the best strategy is to dismount. 
But in modern management (and organisations and government); because of the heavy investment of time, money and energy which has gone into the establishment and maintenance of these critters; other strategies are often tried with these dead horses, including the following: 
1. Buying a bigger, stronger whip. 
2. Changing riders. 
3. Threatening the horse with termination. 
4. Appointing various committees to study the horse. 
5. Arranging to visit other sites to see how they ride dead horses. 
6. Lowering the standards so that dead horses can be included. 
7. Reclassifying the dead horse as "living-impaired." 
8. Hiring outside contractors to ride the dead horse. 
9. Harnessing two or more dead horses together to increase speed. 
10. Providing additional funding and/or training to increase the dead horse's performance. 
11. Doing a productivity study to see if lighter riders would improve the dead horse's performance. 
12. Declaring that the dead horse carries lower overhead and therefore contributes more to the bottom line then younger, more vigorous horses. 
13. Rewriting the expected performance requirements for all horses. 
And, as a final strategy: 
14. Promoting the dead horse to a supervisory position.







Relationship Education For Women
Whatsamatta University's Seminars For Women Fall Catalogue 
Once again, the male staff at Whatsamatta University will be offering courses for women of all marital status in an attempt to help males and females understand each other better. Attendance in at least 10 of the following is required. 
1. Combating The Impulse To Nag 
2. You Can Change The Oil Too 
3. PMS - Learning To Sleep Over At Mother's 
4. How To Properly Fill A Beer Mug 
5. We Do Not Want Ties For Christmas (Just Wear The Sexy Lingerie I Gave You) 
6. Understanding The Female Causes Of Male Drunkenness 
7. How To Do All Your Laundry In One Load And Have More Time To Watch Football 
8. Parenting - Your Husband Gave You Children So You Could Have Someone Other Than Him To Boss Around 
9. How To Encourage Your Husband To Cook More And Be Able To Stomach His Slop 
10. How Not To Sob Like A Sponge When Your Husband Is Right 
11. Get A Life - Learn To Kill Spiders Yourself 
12. Balancing A Checkbook - Even You Can Get It Right 
13. Comprehending Credit Card Spending Limits And Financial Responsibility 
14. You, The Whining Sex 
15. Shopping - Doing It In Less Than 16 Hours 
16. If You Want To Know How That Looks On You, Ask Your Mother
17. How To Close The Garage Door 
18. If You Don't Want An Excuse, Don't Demand An Explanation 
19. How To Go Fishing With Your Mate And Not Catch Pneumonia 
20. Living Without Power Windows - How To Turn A Crank 
21. Romanticism - The Whole Point Of Caviar, Candles, And Conversation 
22. How To Retain Your Composure While Your Husband Is Relaxing By Himself 
23. Why You Don't Need To Invite Your Mother Over Every Weekend 
24. How To Close The Top On The Toothpaste
25. Attainable Goal - Catching A Ball Before It Stops Moving 
26. You Too Can Carry A Backpack 
27. Dress Like A Slut And Put On Something Sexy - Why It Won't Ruin Your Brain
28. Payday And Shopping Are Not Synonymous 
28. How To Act Younger Than Your Mother 
29. Learning To Appreciate The Beer Belly And Lard Butt Morphologies Of Men 
30. Female Friendship - Why Your Best Friends Aren't The ones Who Complain About You The Most
Small Town Church
On vacation with her family in Montana, a mother drove her van past a church in a small town and pointing to it, told the children that it was St. Andrews Church.
Just then, her young son piped up, "It must be a franchise, we've got one of those at home too."


Big Rocks
A lady on her first visit to Yellowstone National Park said to her guide, "Look at all those big rocks. Wherever did they come from?"
"The glaciers brought them down," said the guide.
"Well, where are the glaciers then?"
"The glaciers, dear lady," said the guide in a weary voice, "have gone back to get more rocks."


Words To Live By
If at first you don't succeed, destroy all evidence that you tried. 
A conclusion is the place where you gave up thinking.
For every action, there is an equal and opposite criticism. 
He who hesitates is probably right. 
Never do card tricks for the group you play poker with. 
No one is listening until you make a mistake. 
Success always occurs in private, and failure in full view.
The colder the X-ray table, the more of your body is required on it. 
The hardness of butter is proportional to the softness of the bread. 
The severity of the itch is proportional to the difficulty of reach. 
The affection of your dog is proportional to the wetness of it's paws.
To steal ideas from one person is plagiarism; to steal from many is research. 
To succeed in politics, it is often necessary to rise above your principles. 
Two wrongs are only the beginning. 
You never really learn to swear until you meet computer (Micro)software. 
Monday is a truly awful way to spend 1/7th of your life. 
The further you fall behind, the more time you'll have to catch up. 
A clear conscience is probably the sign of a bad memory. 
If you must choose between two evils, pick the most interesting one. 
Change is inevitable....except from vending machines. 
Don't sweat petty things....or pet sweaty things. 
A fool and his money are soon partying. 
Money can't buy love. But it CAN rent a very close imitation. 
Always try to be modest: And be proud of it! 
If you think nobody cares about you, try missing a couple of payments. 
How many of you believe in telekinesis? Raise my hand.... 
If you get a new car for your spouse -- it'll be a great trade! 
Drugs may lead to nowhere, but at least it's the scenic route. 
I'd kill for a Nobel P(e)ace Prize. 
Plan to be spontaneous all day tomorrow. 
Everybody repeat after me....."We are all individuals."



The Quick and the Dead
Joe, the Governor's most trusted assistant, died in his sleep one night. The Governor had depended on Joe for advice on every subject, from pending bills to wardrobe decisions. In addition, Joe had been his closest friend. So, it was understandable that the Governor didn't take kindly to the droves of ambitious office seekers who wanted Joe's job. "They don't even have the decency to wait until the man is buried," the Governor muttered.
At the funeral, one eager beaver made his way to the Governor's side. "Governor," the man said, "is there a chance that I could take over Joe's place?"
"Certainly," the governor replied. "But you'll have to hurry, I think the undertaker is nearly finished."


Fraud Warning! 
WARNING! PLEASE READ IMMEDIATELY! THIS IS SERIOUS! 
If you get an envelope from a company called the Internal Revenue Service, "DO NOT OPEN IT!"
This group operates a major scam around the same time every year. Their letter claims that you owe them money, which they will take and use to pay for the operation of essential functions of the government. This is untrue! The money the IRS collects is used to fund themselves and various other corporations which entirely depend on these 'subsidies' to stay in business. 
This organization has ties to another questionable organization called the Social Security Administration, who claim to take money from your regular paychecks and save it for your retirement. This is not so. In truth, the SSA uses the money to pay for it's own overheads and the same misguided corporate welfare the IRS helps to mastermind. 
These scam artists have bilked honest, hard working citizens out of billions of dollars. Don't you be among them!


Getting on
Middle age is when you burn the midnight oil around 9:00 pm.


Related?
A couple drove several miles down a country road, not saying a word after an earlier discussion had led to an argument, and neither wanted to concede their position.
As they passed a barnyard of mules and pigs, the wife sarcastically asked, "Relatives of yours?"
"Yep," the husband replied, "In-laws."


Bad Landing
An airline pilot wrote that on this particular flight he had hammered his ship into the runway really hard. The airline had a policy, which required the first officer to stand at the door while the passengers exited, give a smile, and a "Thanks for flying XYZ airline." 
He said that in light of his bad landing, he had a hard time looking the passengers in the eye, thinking that someone would have a smart comment, but no one seemed annoyed.
Finally everyone had gotten off except for one little old lady walking with a cane. She approached and asked, conspiratorially, "Sonny, do you mind if I ask you a question?"
"Why no Ma'am, what is it?" 
"Did we land, or were we shot down?"


Oh God! Save Me!
There is this atheist swimming in the ocean. All of a sudden he sees this shark in the water, so he starts swimming towards his boat. As he looks back he sees the shark turn and head towards him. His boat is a ways off and he starts swimming like crazy. He's scared to death, and as he turns to see the jaws of the great white beast open revealing its teeth in a horrific splendor, the atheist screams, "Oh God! Save me!" 
In an instant time is frozen and a bright light shines down from above. The man is motionless in the water when he hears the voice of God say, "You are an atheist. Why do you call upon me when you do not believe in me?" 
Aghast with confusion and knowing he can't lie the man replies, "Well, that's true, I don't believe in you, but how about the shark? Can you make the shark believe in you?
"The Lord replies, "As you wish," and the light retracted back into the heavens and the man could feel the water begin to move once again. As the atheist looks back he can see the jaws of the shark start to close down on him, when all of sudden the shark stops and pulls back. 
Shocked, the man looks at the shark as the huge beast closes its eyes and bows its head and says, "Thank you Lord for this food which I am about to receive..."


Ways To Simulate Ski Season
This is to remind skiers how to prepare for the ski season and to remind non-skiers why they do not ski. 
10. Visit your local butcher and pay $30 to sit in the walk-in freezer for half an hour. Afterwards, burn two $50 dollar bills to warm up.
9. Go to the nearest hockey rink and walk across the ice 20 times in your ski boots carrying two pairs of skis, accessory bag and poles. Pretend you are looking for your car. 
8. For ski boot simulation at home, put a pebble in your street shoes and tighten a C-clamp around your toes. 
7. Buy a pair of gloves and immediately throw one away. 
6. Go to McDonald's and insist on paying $6.50 for a hamburger. Be sure to wait in the longest line. 
5. Clip a lift ticket to the zipper of your jacket and ride a motorcycle fast enough to make the ticket lacerate your face. 
4. Drive slowly for five hours - anywhere - as long as it's in a snowstorm and you're following an 18 wheeler. 
3. Fill a blender with ice, hit the pulse button and let the spray blast your face. You'd almost believe you're skiing in front of a snow maker! 
2. Dress up in as many clothes as you can and then proceed to take them off because you have to go to the bathroom. 
1. Repeat all of the above every Saturday and Sunday.




<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<cesDoc xmlns="http://www.xces.org/schema/2003" version="1.0.4">
<text>
<body>
<head type="title">Do This........</head>
<p>
<head type="title">1- When computing, whatever happens, behave as though you meant it to happen. </head>
<p>2- When you get to the point where you really understand your computer, then it's definitely obsolete. 
3- The first place to look for information is in the section of the manual where you least expect to find it. 
4- When the going gets tough, upgrade. 
5- For every action there is an equal and opposite malfunction 
6- To err is human... but to completely screw things up requires a computer. 
7- He who laughs last has already made a back-up. 
8- A complex system that does not work is invariably found to have evolved from a simpler system that worked just fine.
9- The No. 1 cause of computer problems is computer solutions. 
10- A computer program will always do what you tell it to do, but rarely what you want it to do.
</p>

<head type="title">If we Fail</head>
<p>A customer walks into a restaurant and notices a large sign on the wall, "$500 IF WE FAIL TO FILL YOUR ORDER!"
When his waitress arrives, he orders elephant tail on rye. She calmly writes down his order and walks into the kitchen where all hell breaks loose!
The restaurant owner comes storming out of the kitchen. He runs up to the customer's table, slaps five $100 bills down on it and says, "You got me that time buddy, but I want you to know that's the first time in ten years we've been out of rye bread!"
</p>

<head type="title">Do you remember</head>
<p>Grandma and Grandpa were sitting in their porch rockers watching the beautiful sunset and reminiscing about "the good old days," when Grandma turned to Grandpa and said, "Honey, do you remember when we first started dating and you used to just casually reach over and take my hand?" Grandpa looked over at her, smiled and took her aged hand in his. 
With a wry little smile Grandma pressed a little farther, "Honey, do you remember how after we were engaged you'd sometimes lean over and suddenly kiss me on the cheek?" 
Grandpa leaned slowly toward Grandma and gave her a lingering kiss on her wrinkled cheek.
Growing bolder still, Grandma said, "Honey, do you remember how, after we were first married, you'd kind of nibble on my ear?" 
Grandpa slowly got up from his rocker and headed into the house.
Alarmed, Grandma said, "Honey, where are you going?" 
Grandpa replied, "To get my teeth!"
</p>

<head type="title">Listening to the Ground</head>
<p>Two cowboys come upon an Indian lying on his stomach with his ear to the ground. One of the cowboys stops and says to the other, "You see that Indian?" 
"Yeah," says the other cowboy.
"Look," says the first one, "he's listening to the ground. He can hear things for miles in any direction." Just then the Indian looks up. 
"Covered wagon," he says, "about two miles away. Have two horses, one brown, one white. Man, woman, child, household effects in wagon."
"Incredible!" says the cowboy to his friend. "This Indian knows how far away they are, how many horses, what color they are, who is in the wagon, and what is in the wagon. Amazing!"
The Indian looks up again and says, "Ran over me a half a hour ago."
</p>

<head type="title">Mistakes</head>
<p>On his way out of church, Frank stopped at the door to speak to the minister. "Would it be right," he asked, "for a person to profit from the mistakes of another?"
"Absolutely not!" replied the pastor.
"In that case," said the young man, "I wonder if you'd consider returning the hundred dollars I paid you to marry my wife and me last July."
</p>

<head type="title">These are all true - probably.</head>
<p>Rome did not create a great empire by having meetings, they did it by killing anybody who opposed them. 
If you can stay calm, while all around you is chaos...then you probably haven't completely understood the seriousness of the situation. 
Doing a job RIGHT the first time gets the job done. Doing the job WRONG fourteen times gives you job security. 
It is hard to soar like an eagle when you are surrounded by turkeys; but on the other hand, although eagles may soar, turkeys don't get sucked into jet engines. 
A person who smiles in the face of adversity...probably has already figured out who's the scapegoat. 
Plagiarism saves time.
</p>

<head type="title">Management</head>
<p>If at first you don't succeed, try management. 
Never put off until tomorrow what you can avoid altogether. 
TEAMWORK...means never having to take all the blame yourself. 
The beatings will continue until morale improves. 
Never underestimate the power of very stupid people in large groups. 
We waste time, so you don't have to. 
Hang in there, retirement is only thirty years away! 
Go the extra mile. It makes your boss look like an incompetent slacker. 
A snooze button is a poor substitute for no alarm clock at all. 
When the going gets tough, the tough take a coffee break. 
INDECISION is the key to FLEXIBILITY. 
Succeed in spite of management. 
Aim Low, Reach Your Goals, Avoid Disappointment
</p>

<head type="title">Things To Ponder </head>
<p>1. Why do they call it a TV set, when you only get one?
2. Why is the third hand on the watch called the second hand?
3. If a word is misspelled in the dictionary, would we ever know?
4. If Webster wrote the first dictionary, where did he find the words?
5. Why do we say something is out of whack? What is a whack?
6. How can "slow down" and "slow up" mean the same thing?
7. Why do "fat chance" and "slim chance" mean the same thing?
8. Why do 'tug' boats push barges?
9. Why do we sing "Take me out to the ball game" when we are already there?
10. Why are they called "stands" when they are made for sitting?
11. Why is it called "after dark" when it really is "after light"?
12. If one "expected the unexpected" then the unexpected couldn't exist, Right?
13. Why are a 'wise man' and a 'wise guy' opposites?
14. Why do 'overlook and 'oversee' mean opposite things?
15. Why is phonics not spelled the way it sounds?
16. If work is so terrific, why do they have to pay you to do it?
17. If all the world is a stage, where is the audience sitting?
18. If love is blind, why is fancy lingerie so popular?
19. If you are cross-eyed and have dyslexia, can you then read all right?
20. Why is bra singular and panties plural?
21. Why do you press harder on the buttons of a remote control when you know the batteries are dead?
22. How come abbreviated is such a long word?
</p>

<head type="title">What's The Difference??</head>
<p>A young girl who was writing a paper for school came to her father and asked, "Dad, what is the difference between anger and exasperation?"
The father replied, "It is mostly a matter of degree. Let me show you what I mean." With that the father went to the telephone and dialed a number at random. To the man who answered the phone, he said, "Hello, is Melvin there?"
The man answered, "There is no one living here named Melvin. Why don't you learn to look up numbers before you dial them?"
"See," said the father to his daughter. "That man was not a bit happy with our call. He was probably very busy with some-thing and we annoyed him. Now watch...." The father dialed the number again. "Hello, is Melvin there?", asked the father.
"Now look here!" came the heated reply. "You just called this number and I told you that there is no Melvin here! You've got a lot of nerve calling again!" The receiver slammed down hard.
The father turned to his daughter and said, "You see, that was anger. Now I'll show you what exasperation means. "He dialed the same number, and when a violent voice roared, "Hello!"
The father calmly said, "Hello, this is Melvin. Have there been any calls for me?"
</p>
</body>
</text>
</cesDoc>


Digging up the facts...

After digging to a depth of 100m last year, Russian scientists found traces of copper wiring dating back 1000 years, and came to the conclusion that their ancestors already had a telephone network one thousand years ago.
So as not to be outdone, in the weeks that followed, American scientists dug 200m, and headlines in the US newspapers read: "US scientists have found traces of 2000 year old optical fibres, and have concluded that their ancestors already had advanced high-tech digital telephone 1000 years earlier than the Russians."
One week later, the Irish press reported the following: "After digging as deep as 500m, Irish scientists have found absolutely nothing. They have concluded that 5000 years ago, their ancestors were already using mobile phones".

Mr N. Mandela.

Nelson Mandela is sitting at home watching TV and drinking a beer when he hears a knock at the door. When he opens it, he is confronted by a little Chinese man, clutching a clipboard and yelling, "You Sign! You sign!" Behind him is an enormous truck full of car exhausts. 
Nelson is standing there in complete amazement, when the Chinese man starts to yell louder. "You Sign! You sign!" 
Nelson says to him, "Look, you've obviously got the wrong man", and shuts the door in his face.
The next day he hears a knock at the door again. When he opens it, the little Chinese man is back with a huge truck of brake pads. He thrusts his clipboard under Nelson's nose, yelling, "You sign! You sign!" 
Mr Mandela is getting a bit hacked off by now, so he pushes the little Chinese man back, shouting: "Look, go away! You've got the wrong man! I don't want them!" Then he slams the door in his face again.
The following day, Nelson is resting, and late in the afternoon, he hears a knock on the door again. On opening the door, there is the same little Chinese man thrusting a clipboard under his nose, shouting, "You sign! You sign!" Behind him are TWO very large trucks full of car parts. 
This time Nelson loses his temper completely, he picks up the little man by his shirt front and yells at him; "Look, I don't want these! Do you understand? You must have the wrong name! Who do you want to give these to?"
The little Chinese man looks at him very puzzled, consults his clipboard, and says, "You not Nissan Main Dealer?"


Prefix La is feminine Prefix Le is masculine
A language instructor was explaining to her class that in French, nouns unlike their English counterparts, are grammatically designated as masculine or feminine.
"House," in French, is feminine - "la maison."
"Pencil," in French, is masculine "le crayon."
One puzzled student asked, "What gender is Computer?"
The teacher did not know, and the word wasn't in her French dictionary. So for fun she split the class into two groups appropriately enough, by gender and asked them to decide whether Computer should be a masculine or feminine noun.
Both groups were required to give four reasons for their recommendation. The boy's group decided that computers should definitely be of the feminine gender ("la computer"), because:
1. No one but their creator understands their internal logic;
2. The native language they use to communicate with other computers is incomprehensible to everyone else;
3. Even the smallest mistakes are stored in long-term memory for possible later retrieval; and
4. As soon as you make a commitment to one, you find yourself spending half your salary on accessories for it.
The women's group, however, concluded that computers should be masculine("le computer"), because:
1. In order to get their attention, you have to turn them on;
2. They have a lot of data but they are still clueless;
3. They are supposed to help you solve problems, but half the time they ARE the problem; and
4. As soon as you commit to one, you realize that if you'd waited a little longer, you could have gotten a better model.


WHY WE LOVE CHILDREN:
A small boy is sent to bed by his father. Five minutes later:
"Da-ad..."
"What?"
"I'm thirsty. Can you bring me a drink of water?"
"No. You had your chance. Lights out."
Five minutes later: "Da-aaaad..."
"I'm THIRSTY. Can I have a drink of water??"
"I told you NO! If you ask again, I'll have to spank you!!"
Five minutes later... "Daaaa-aaaad..."
"WHAT??!!"
"When you come in to spank me, can you bring me a drink of water?"


An exasperated mother, whose son was always getting into mischief, finally asked him, "How do you expect to get into Heaven?" 
The boy thought it over and said, "Well, I'll just run in and out and in
and out and keep slamming the door until St. Peter says 'For Heaven's sake, Jimmy, come in or stay out!'"



One summer evening during a violent thunderstorm a mother was tucking her small boy into bed. She was about to turn off the light when he asked with a tremor in his voice, "Mommy, will you sleep with me tonight?" 
The mother smiled and gave him a reassuring hug. I can't, dear," she said. "I have to sleep in Daddy's room." 
Little voice: "The big sissy."


A mother took her three-year-old daughter to church for the first time. The church lights were lowered, and then the choir came down the aisle, carrying lighted candles. 
All was quiet until the little one started to sing in a loud voice, "Happy birthday to you. Happy
birthday to you..."


It was that time during the Sunday morning service for "the children's sermon," and all the children were invited to come forward. One little girl was wearing a particularly pretty dress and, as she sat down, the pastor leaned over and said to her, "That is a very pretty dress. Is it your Easter dress?"
The little girl replied, directly into the pastor's clip-on microphone, "Yes, and my Mom says it's a bitch to iron."


Finding one of her students making faces at others on the playground, Ms. Smith stopped to gently reprove the child. Smiling sweetly, the Sunday School teacher said, "Bobby, when I as a child I was told that if I made ugly faces, it would freeze and I would stay like that." 
Bobby looked up and replied, "Well, Ms. Smith, you can't say you weren't warned."







Standards

An American, traveling on a train in Europe, met a Cuban tobacco grower, a Russian vodka distiller and a lawyer. While they were talking business, the Cuban took out four cigars and passed them around. After lighting his own cigar, the Cuban took one drag and then threw it out the window, explaining that cigars were of no consequence in his country since there was such an abundance of them. 
After dinner, the Russian passed out bottles of vodka. After taking just one swig, he threw the bottle out the window, explaining that vodka was of no consequence since, in Russia, it was so plentiful. 
The American businessman sat in quiet contemplation for several minutes then arose and threw the lawyer out the window.

If You Must...

A vampire bat came flapping in from the night covered in fresh blood and parked himself on the roof of the cave to get some sleep.
Pretty soon all the other bats smelled the blood and began hassling him about where he got it. He told them to knock it off and let him get some sleep but they persisted in hassling him to no end until finally he gave in.
"OK!" he said with exasperation, "Follow me." and he flew out of the cave with hundreds of bats following close behind him. Down through the valley they went, across the river and into the deep forest. Finally he slowed down and all the other bats excitedly gathered around him.
"Do you see that tree over there?" he asked.
"Yes, yes, yes!" the other bats all screamed in a frenzy.
"Good," said the first bat, "Because I DIDN'T!"


666 (Which is the number of the Anti-Christ)
There is something very sinister about this. 666 is exactly 2.138 times the height of the pyramid of Cheops and if we multiply the height of the pyramid by 3.36 million, we get the EXACT, let me repeat that - EXACT - distance to the moon.
This next part is much more than mere coincidence: if you drop the zeros off 3.36 million and then add the first 3 to the 36, you get a figure which is EXACTLY equal to the age that Bill Gates would have been on his 39th birthday.
This provides CONCLUSIVE proof that Bill Gates is either an extraterrestrial or a pyramid.


Copyright Explained
When you write copy you have the right to copyright the copy you write, if the copy is right. If however, your copy falls over, you must right your copy. If you write religious services you write rite, and have the right to copyright the rite you write.
Very conservative people write right copy, and have the right to copyright the right copy they write. A right wing cleric would write right rite, and has the right to copyright the right rite he has the right to write. His editor has the job of making the right rite copy right before the copyright can be right.
Should Mr Wright decide to write right rite, then Wright would write right rite, which Wright has the right to copyright. Duplicating that rite would copy Wright right rite, and violate copyright, which Wright would have the right to right.
Right?


Old Hermit 
An old guy who'd spent his whole life as a recluse in the desert goes to visit a friend. He'd never seen a train in his life, but on his way he happens upon a railroad track. Standing alongside the track, wondering what the heck it was, he hears a loud whistle. Looking around, he sees a train bearing down on him like something out of the Apocalypse. The train just nudges him a glancing blow, but it still flips him into an arroyo, where his head smacks up against a rock and knocks him colder'n a witch's heart.
A while later he gets up, tenderly feeling the bump on his head and shrugging off the dust, and continues onto his friend's house, the whole time wondering what the devil that big darn thing was that nearly killed him. 
His friend greets him, puts on a kettle of tea, and they start swapping old lies. A few minutes later, the tea kettle starts whistling like crazy on the stove and the hermit jumps up in a panic, grabs a chair and pounds the whistling tea kettle flatter'n a pancake.
Amazed, his friend asks, "What the hell did you do that for?"
The hermit says, "Man, those suckers're dangerous. You gotta kill 'em when they're small!"



Every Morning 
Every morning an antelope wakes up knowing it has to outrun the fastest cougar or it will be killed.
Every morning a cougar wakes up knowing it has to outrun the slowest antelope or it will starve.
So, whether you're a cougar or an antelope, when the sun comes up, you'd better hit the ground running.


Comin' and Goin'
There's this guy who had been lost and walking in the desert for about 2 weeks. One hot day, he sees the home of a missionary. Tired and weak, he crawls up to the house and collapses on the doorstep. The missionary finds him and nurses him back to health. Feeling better, the man asks the missionary for directions to the nearest town. 
On his way out the back door, he sees this horse. He goes back into the house and asks the missionary, "Could I borrow your horse and give it back when I reach the town?" The missionary says, "Sure but there is a special thing about this horse. You have to say 'Thank God' to make it go and 'Amen' to make it stop." 
Not paying much attention, the man says, "Sure, OK." So he gets on the horse and says, "Thank God" and the horse starts walking. Then he says, "Thank God, thank God," and the horse starts trotting. Feeling really brave, the man says, "Thank God, thank God, thank God, thank God, thank God" and the horse just about takes off. 
Pretty soon he sees this cliff coming up and he's doing everything he can to make the horse stop. "Whoa, stop, hold on!!!! "Finally he remembers, "Amen!!" and the horse skids to a stop 4 inches from the edge of the cliff. The man sinks slowly back into the saddle, sighs deeply, and lets out a heartfelt, "Thank God"


SPCA not needed..
The Lone Ranger and Tonto walked into a bar and sat down to drink a beer. After a few minutes, a big tall cowboy walked in and said "Who owns the big white horse outside?"
The Lone Ranger stood up, hitched his gun belt, and said, "I do...Why?"
The cowboy looked at the Lone Ranger and said, "I just thought you'd like to know that your horse is about dead outside!"
The Lone Ranger and Tonto rushed outside and sure enough Silver was ready to die from heat exhaustion. The Lone Ranger got the horse water and soon Silver was starting to feel a little better. The Lone Ranger turned to Tonto and said, "Tonto, I want you to run around Silver and see if you can create enough of a breeze to make him start to feel better."
Tonto said, "Sure, Kemosabe" and took off, running circles around Silver.
Not able to do anything else but wait, the Lone Ranger returned to the bar to finish his drink. A few minutes later, another cowboy struts into the bar and asks, "Who owns that big white horse outside?"
The Lone Ranger stands again, and claims, "I do, what's wrong with him this time?"
The cowboy looks him right in the eye and says, "Nothing, but you left your Injun runnin'."


More Attention
In an effort to motivate the boy into focusing more attention on his schoolwork, the father said to his son, "When Abe Lincoln was your age, he was studying books by the light from the fireplace."
And the son's reply, "Dad, when Abe Lincoln was your age, he was The President of The United States!!!"



<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<cesDoc xmlns="http://www.xces.org/schema/2003" version="1.0.4">
<text>
<body>
<head type="title">Can't See</head>
<p>A married man left for work early one Friday afternoon. Instead of going home, however, he squandered the weekend (and his paycheck) partying with the boys. When he finally returned home on Sunday night, he ran into a barrage of epithets from his wife. 
After a couple of hours of nagging and berating, his wife asked "How would you like it if you didn't see me for a couple of days?!?"
"That would suit me just fine!!" the man said. Monday went by, and the man didn't see his wife. Tuesday and Wednesday went by with the same result. 
Come Thursday, the swelling went down a bit and he could see her a little, just out of the corner of his left eye.</p>

<head type="title">How To Write Good</head>
<p>
1. Always avoid alliteration.
2. Prepositions are not words to end sentences with.
3. Avoid cliches like the plague--they're old hat.
4. Employ the vernacular.
5. Eschew ampersands & abbreviations, etc.
6. Parenthetical remarks (however relevant) are unnecessary.
7. Parenthetical words however must be enclosed in commas.
8. It is wrong to ever split an infinitive.
9. Contractions aren't necessary.
10. Do not use a foreign word when there is an adequate English quid pro quo.
11. One should never generalize.
12. Eliminate quotations. As Ralph Waldo Emerson said: "I hate quotations. Tell me what you know."
13. Comparisons are as bad as cliches.
14. Don't be redundant; don't use more words than necessary; it's highly superfluous.
15. Profanity sucks.
16. Be more or less specific.
17. Understatement is always best.
18. Exaggeration is a billion times worse than understatement.
19. One-word sentences? Eliminate.
20. Analogies in writing are like feathers on a snake
21. The passive voice should not be used.
22. Go around the barn at high noon to avoid colloquialisms.
23. Take the bull by the hand and avoid mixed metaphors--even if a mixed metaphor sings, it should be derailed. 
24. Who needs rhetorical questions?
25. Don't use commas, that, are not necessary.
26. Do not use hyperbole; not one in a million can do it effectively.
27. Never use a big word when a diminutive alternative would suffice.
28. Subject and verb always has to agree.
29. It behooves you to avoid archaic expressions. Avoid archaeic spellings too.
30. Placing a comma between subject and predicate, is not correct.
31. Use your spell checker to avoid mispelling and to catch typograhpical errors.
32. Don't repeat yourself, or say again what you have said before.
33. Don't be redundant.
34. Use the apostrophe in it's proper place and omit it when its not needed.
35. Don't never use no double negatives.
36. Poofread carefully to see if you any words out.
37. Hopefully, you will use words correctly, irregardless of how others use them.
38. Eschew obfuscation.
39. No sentence fragments.
40. Don't indulge in sesquipedalian lexicological construction
41. A writer must not shift your point of view.
42. Don't overuse exclamation marks!!
43. Place pronouns as close as possible, especially in long sentences, as of 10 or more words, to their antecedents.
44. Writing carefully, dangling participles must be avoided.
45. If any word is improper at the end of a sentence, a linking verb is.
46. Avoid trendy locutions that sound flaky.
47. Everyone should be careful to use a singular pronoun with singular nouns in their writing.
48. Always pick on the correct idiom.
49. The adverb always follows the verb.
50. And always be sure to finish what
</p>

<head type="title">Jell-O</head>
<p>Freddy had never seen a plate of Jell-O. He sat there at the dinner table staring at it for a long moment, watching it quiver.
"Go ahead and eat it," his mother ordered.
"Eat it!" the boy drew back in amazement. "It ain't dead yet!"
</p>

<head type="title">Easy time</head>
<p>While proudly showing off his new apartment to friends, a college student led the way into the den.
"What is the big brass gong and hammer for?" one of his friends asked.
"That is the talking clock," the man replied.
"How's it work?" the friend asked.
"Watch," the man said then proceeded to give the gong a room shattering bash with the hammer.
Suddenly, someone screamed from the other side of the wall, "HEY, KNOCK IT OFF ! It's two AM!"
</p>

<head type="title">Get Your Mother.</head>
<p>An elderly Hutterite couple with their son went into town for the first time. Eventually they ended up in a tall office building. The wife wandered off to look at something that had caught her eye, while the boy and his father became attracted to a shiny wall that kept opening and closing.. They kept seeing people go in and then come out differently. Finally, the gentleman had enough when he saw an old lady get into the shiny box , the lights flashed on and off again and then a few minutes later a gorgeous blonde stepped out. 
"Son," he said while panting heavily, "hurry and go get your mother."
</p>

<head type="title">Exact Time</head>
<p>Every morning for years, at about 11:30, the telephone operator in a small Sierra-Nevada town received a call from a man asking the exact time. One day the operator summed up nerve enough to ask him why the regularity.
"I'm foreman of the local sawmill," he explained. "Every day I have to blow the whistle at noon so I call you to get the exact time." 
"That's really funny," the operator giggled,. "Because all this time we've been setting our clock by your whistle.
</p>

<head type="title">Letter to Dad</head>
<p>Dear Dad,
$chool i$ really great. I am making lot$ of friend$ and $tudying very hard. With all my $tuff, I $imply can't think of anything I need, $o if you would like, you can ju$t $end me a card, a$ I would love to hear from you.
Love, Your $on.
Dear Son,
I kNOw that astroNOmy, ecoNOmics, and oceaNOgraphy are eNOugh to keep even an hoNOr student busy. Do NOt forget that the pursuit of kNOwledge is a NOble task, and you can never study eNOugh.
</p>
</body>
</text>
</cesDoc>

   
   
      
         
            Even More "Proving Rape"

            Chatterbox feels that the Wall Street Journal editorial page's
coverage of Juanita Broaddrick's rape charges against Bill Clinton (see
"Proving
Rape ," "More Proving
Rape," as well as Michael Kinsley's
"Readme"column in the current issue) cries out for the introduction of the
Scientific Method into the usually mushy business of assessing press
responsibility. With that in mind, Chatterbox hereby inaugurates the
Intellectual Dishonesty (henceforth to be known as the Indis )
Index . Here's how it works: Publications that refuse to acknowledge
(even if to refute the importance of) highly significant but inconvenient facts
in their news or opinion coverage of controversial events will score one
point for the initial offense. They will then score one point for
every subsequent issue or broadcast or Internet posting after the first offense
is noted by Chatterbox if they continue not to report said inconvenient
fact--and an additional two points on days when the news organization
runs a follow-up without making note of said inconvenient fact.
Publications receiving a score of 10 will be inducted into the Indis Hall of
Fame . Publications that get all the way up to 20 will be faxed a likeness
of Joseph Stalin. (Chatterbox would prefer not to invoke the phrase
"intellectual dishonesty," because it's pompous and falsely suggests that only
intellectuals can be intellectually dishonest. But Chatterbox doesn't know any
other easily understandable phrase that describes this particular kind of
offense.)

            For the purposes of this survey, the Wall Street Journal will be
counted as a separate and distinct publication from the Journal 's
editorial page, because, in essence, it is.

            The Journal editorial page continues not to acknowledge that Norma
Kelsey, the friend and employee to Juanita Broaddrick who is one of two people
partially corroborating Broaddrick's rape accusation, is the daughter of a man
whose murderer was pardoned by Gov. Bill Clinton. (A responsible account of the
whole controversy in today's New York Times reports that Kelsey says the pardon
had nothing to do with her corroboration.) The Journal editorial page
gets one point for failing to note the pardon in its initial Op-Ed by
Dorothy Rabinowitz on Feb. 19. Because it has published three times since the
initial omission, it scores an additional three points. And because it
published an editorial Feb. 22 taunting the rest of the press for not following
it on the story--and still didn't mention the pardon--it scores an extra
two points. That comes to a total of six . Chatterbox feels
certain that the Journal editorial page will provide some follow-up
tomorrow to tonight's NBC broadcast of its own Broaddrick interview, which
means that if the Journal editorial page continues to take no action it
will be in the Indis Hall of Fame by Monday at the latest!

            Chatterbox considered but rejected the idea of awarding Rabinowitz bonus
points for having "eventually convinced" Broaddrick to grant an interview to
the New York Times (as the Times reports in today's story). But
the Scientific Method does not permit any tinkering with the Indis
Index 's scoring procedures. And besides, Rabinowitz's efforts on the
Times ' behalf weren't really unethical, just puzzling, given the two
newspapers' intense rivalry. When Chatterbox asked the Journal 's DC
bureau chief, Alan Murray, who exercised good judgment in not breaking
the Broaddrick story (and--full disclosure-- is Chatterbox's former boss), to
comment about a Journal employee's feeding sources to the Times ,
he replied: "I don't really have any comment on what the edit page did. They do
their thing, we do ours." Which is what Journal news employees are
instructed to say whenever the editorial page causes them cringing
embarrassment.

            For her part, Rabinowitz explains to Chatterbox that her efforts on behalf
of the Times were more indifferent than the Times made them
sound. "Ms. Broaddrick told me Sunday that a Times reporter had appeared
at the house in the a.m., and that she had refused an interview," Rabinowitz
writes in an e-mail message. "I asked her why she had decided to talk to the
New York Post 's Steve Dunleavy, and refused a Times reporter. She
said Dunleavy caught her by surprise. She asked if I thought it would be all
right to talk to the Times reporter. I told her it would be--certainly
as all right as talking to Dunleavy. She said, 'Well, I'm sorry I didn't.' She
said she would if he called again. I passed this on to [ Times reporter]
Felicity Barringer during our second day's interview chat. So--that's how it
happens that in the New York Times piece today I'm
described--solemnly--as having 'eventually convinced' her to repeat the story
to the New York Times."

            
               --Timothy Noah
            

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            Husbands and Wives

            Chatterbox feels a little dense for not realizing sooner that the subtext
(and hence much of the appeal) of a Hillary Clinton-Rudy Giuliani Senate race
would be Wronged Wife vs. Neglectful Husband. By running against Giuliani (who
has been reported in Vanity Fair to have a mistress--he denies it--and,
by all accounts, has a sham marriage), the first lady could exact symbolic
revenge on her philandering husband while advancing the fortunes of the
Democratic party at the same time! That's almost enough for Chatterbox
to jump on the Hillary for Senate bandwagon.

            The media conventional wisdom is that Giuliani would make Hillary Clinton's
marital problems a major campaign issue. "Giuliani makes Ken Starr look like a
patsy," cried Time this week. But, er, wouldn't that be kind of a risky
strategy, given his own problematic union? Many have already opined that the
mayor is too vituperative, too much of a loner to practice the congenial,
teamwork-oriented politics of the Senate; other doubters have pointed to his
hardhearted, uncaring social policies. The last thing he needs is to draw more
attention to these qualities in his personal life.

            Giuliani's estrangement from his wife, Donna Hanover, is made clear in an
interview with Hanover that appears in today's New York Times . Hanover "would not say
whether Giuliani would run for the Senate, whether she would like him to run
for Senate, or whether she would campaign for him if he did. But she did say in
the interview, which was conducted before the recent frenzy of speculation
about Hillary Rodham Clinton's interest in the same New York Senate seat, that
Mrs. Clinton is a 'very interesting' person. 'I think she's dynamic, and I
think she's very smart, and she's an amazing speaker,' Ms. Hanover said." And,
for a punch line: "Ms. Hanover's press secretary, Joannie Danielides, said this
week that Ms. Hanover had no comment on Mrs. Clinton's potential Senate
campaign." Does she have any comment on whether Ms. Hanover plans to be Hillary
Clinton's campaign manager?

            
               Indis Index 
               Update: NBC, in its Juanita Broaddrick broadcast
last night, turned up an additional three witnesses who recall being told by
Broaddrick in the late 1970s that Bill Clinton raped her. This
diminishes-- slightly-- the significance of Norma Kelsey's possible
motives in verifying parts of Broaddrick's story. (One of the three is Kelsey's
sister, whose motives can be similarly questioned; the other two heard
Broaddrick tell her story but did not see her bruised lip, as only Kelsey and
Broaddrick's husband claim to have.) However, Chatterbox notes that NBC, like
every other responsible news organization that's covered this story, reported
that Norma Kelsey's father's killer was pardoned by Gov. Bill Clinton, and
remains perplexed that the Journal editorial page won't. Its Indis
Index is today up to seven.
            

            
               --Timothy Noah and Jodi Kantor
            

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            The Entrepreneur Is the New Madonna
            

            Dear Joe,

            I know what you mean about being a journalist. Almost every assignment is a
challenge in a different way and it never seems to get easier. I often feel as
if I only get half the story sometimes, so I typically do a massive amount of
reporting that is most often much more than I will ever need. I think that is
why I welcomed doing a book--it gives one the ability to use so much of what is
left on the cutting room floor of daily journalism.

            Think of all the good stuff we all collect daily in our reporting that we
never add to stories. Most often reporters recount these tales with each other
and with their sources rather than share them with the general public. Much of
it, of course, using the standards of top newspapers, cannot be used since it
is largely gossip we are repeating, although it certainly could make for some
very good stories. I often wonder when a really great fictional book will be
written about this era (probably decades and decades hence as it is too close).
In any case, there certainly is no lack of information available about the
moguls of technology now as they all become our current pop icons. I would
posit that Bill and Michael and Steve and Jerry have become the Madonnas of the
current age of stock market mania and celebration of the entrepreneur.

            So the shift in the image of Gates has been an interesting one for me to
watch. The smart-boy technologist is now being painted as the whiny bully. I
personally always thought it was a risk to pin the image of Microsoft on just
one man--at AOL, for example, there was a conscious effort to develop other
"characters," for lack of a better word. So there, while you think of Case, you
also think of Pittman and Leonsis and increasingly a range of other executives.
Steve Ballmer, of course, is now getting a lot more attention at Microsoft, but
it still seems to be Bill's show over there.

            While I did not attend the trial--I was lucky to be able to read your highly
amusing and informative dispatches, several of which made me spit up my lunch
laughing--it certainly seemed as if the image of Bill Gates took a beating and
the insular culture of Microsoft did not look so good. That's ironic, since I
think it was just that insularity that helped them, much in the same way that
AOL has benefited from being in the Virginia suburbs rather than in Silicon
Valley. AOL would never have existed if it had been founded here, I am sure,
since its employees would have been mocked into obscurity by the digerati. Out
in the D.C. area, they looked positively exciting next to all the
government-oriented contractors. I wonder if that means geography is destiny,
and it's still location, location, location.

            From where I am sitting, I think the Microsoft trial has been the really
obvious turning point between the computer era and the digital age. I think it
almost does not matter what the judge does since it's clear that the balance of
power is shifting again, although it not clear where it will land. Will the
strongman of the era be AOL, AT&T, Microsoft, or one of the big media
companies? Or will it be none of them because the Internet allows and
encourages a plethora of strong companies and a complex interconnection of
businesses where none are allowed to dominate?

            I always use two simple words when people tell me that one company--whether
it is AOL or Microsoft or Disney--is in charge of all our destinies: Babylon
was. That incredible empire dominated the world and I imagine it did not seem
possible to people living then that anyone could loosen that empire's grip on
humanity. But we all know how that story turned out.

            Now I am getting way too philosophical, but this is my final missive, so why
not? Perhaps you could hasten a prediction of where this is all going. As for
me, I'll stick with my philosophy of reporting and, I guess, life--nobody
knows.

            Cheers,
Kara

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            No More Kisses

            In light of Secretary of State Albright's imminent trip to the middle east,
the New York Times ,
Los
Angeles Times and Washington Post emphasize the deteriorating situation
there. But USA Today stays with Princess Di.

            The NYT states that when Albright shows up on Tuesday, she will "read
the riot act" to Yassir Arafat about cracking down on terrorism. Her goal will
be to get Arafat to come out decisively and publicly for peace with Israel,
telling him that there can be no more attempts at co-opting Hamas, and "no more
kisses" of its leaders.

            The Times emphasizes the larger geopolitical context. Given that the
troubles on the West Bank have not only frosted relations between Arafat and
Israel, but also those between Israel and Egypt and between Israel and Saudi
Arabia, the paper states that the U.S. is now facing the prospect that the
moderate Arab coalition it built after the Persian Gulf war to contain Iraq and
Iran is falling apart.

            The LAT focuses on new dissension within the Israeli government about
whether or not Israel should continue to maintain forces in southern Lebanon,
dissension fueled when an Israeli commando raid there late last week was
ambushed, with twelve deaths the result. Perhaps the most striking indicator of
a change of mood inside the government reported by the paper is the news that
cabinet member Ariel Sharon, who as Defense Minister in 1982 got Israel
entrenched in Lebanon in the first place, is among those urging a
reconsideration of the deployment.

            Several papers have word that H and R Block has finally wriggled out of its
controlling stake of Compuserve, but it's the Post with the news that
AOL is set to take it over.

            The Wall Street Journal "Outlook" observes, "In the U.S. job
market, the balance of power is shifting to employees from employers," and
states that "the retention frenzy was triggered in part by previous waves of
corporate downsizing," which left behind survivors who took stock of career
options and used Internet job listings and intensified recruiting to land
better offers, which in turn led to counter-offers and higher salaries. This
has led, says the Journal , to annual compensation rising 5-6 percent a
year.

            Much of the continuing Diana coverage is spinning off into the realm of
meta- and meta-meta-pieces. The LAT , for instance, examines what it
takes to be a new "cuddly-feely" Britain born of the national grief experience.
But USAT and the WP also each run pretty newsy Diana pieces as
well. Both reveal that Tony Blair had conferred with Diana about a goodwill
ambassador job shortly before her death, and USAT reports that Le
Figaro says a dying Diana gave two crash witnesses a message for her family
and children.

            Give the NYT credit for getting Mother Teresa back on the front page
and a bonus point for including some criticism of her in the story. "Not
everyone in Calcutta, or India for that matter, is unanimous in praising the
nun, whose organization was able to raise millions of dollars worldwide but
made virtually no significant changes in the social structure of this
collapsing city's poor neighborhoods. Salvation--hers and that of the destitute
she rescued from the gutters--was her aim, not economic or social development
as many others understand it, she said." It's odd, however, that in repeating
this charge, the Times didn't interview the man most closely associated
with it, Christopher Hitchens, or refer to the book where he set it out, The
Missionary Position . Hmmm, wanna bet there was a copy of the book on
somebody's desk at the Times though?

            What's with the top-of-the-front headline the LAT puts over its
picture of Martina Hingis standing next to Venus Williams after beating her at
the U.S. Open--"Venus Brought Back to Earth"? Doesn't that sound like
celebrating a defeat rather than celebrating a victory? How odd--and a good
illustration of how trying to shoe-horn in a "witty" headline can drive you
into an idea that doesn't fit or is undeserved. Given that Ms. Williams'
parents are rather protective of her and that she is a black in a still
pretty-lilly-white sport, don't be surprised if there's a bit of a complaint
about this.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            Fashioning Paula

            
               USA
Today leads with Texas' settlement of its product-liability lawsuit
against the leading tobacco companies. The top nonlocal story at the Washington Post is the latest development in the Indonesian
economic crisis--a rare and boosterish Suharto press conference in contrast to
a further plunging stock market and food riots in outlying towns. The New York Times
leads with a comprehensive poll about American attitudes concerning
abortion.

            In the Texas case, reports USAT , the defendant companies have agreed
to pay about $15 billion over 25 years to reimburse the state for expenses it
incurred in the treatment of smoking-related illnesses. That makes Texas the
third state to settle such a case, joining Florida and Mississippi. There are,
says the paper, a total of 40 such suits on file, with Minnesota's turn coming
next week.

            The Wall Street Journal states that the plaintiffs' lawyers
hired by Texas to try the case will receive as part of the deal almost $2.2
billion in fees.

            The NYT abortion survey, the first conducted by the paper since 1989, was
based on telephone interviews of 1,101 people and detects "a notable shift from
general acceptance" of having the procedure: from 40 percent to 32 percent. And
the pollsters also detected an increasingly acute sensitivity to abortion
timing: Sixty-one percent of those polled thought abortions should be permitted
during the first trimester, but only 15 percent in the second and just 7
percent in the third. (The piece notes that this last stat helps explain why a
focus on partial-birth abortions has proven politically advantageous for
abortion foes.) Nearly 45 percent of those asked to state the present law on
abortion could not give the correct answer.

            The WSJ notes that the just-concluded football/TV deal will probably
mean even steeper cable bills in the near future. Some local cable
companies, the paper says, expect the fees they'll pay ESPN to go up more than
20 percent. And they're in the habit of passing expenses along to Joe Remote.
Even nonsports fans will be affected, notes the Journal , because ESPN is
usually part of basic cable service. (Which raises the question: Hasn't
technology progressed to a point that would allow cafeteria-style programming
choices by subscribers?)

            A scan of the headlines found cheek-by-jowl on the WP 's Page A6
provides an interesting snapshot of the life of the modern Cabinet officer:
"[Ex-HUD Secretary] Cisneros's Ex-Mistress Pleads Guilty," "[Labor Secretary]
Herman Denies Allegations of Influence-Selling Scheme," and "Two Tyson Foods
Executive Indicted Over Gifts to [Ex-Agriculture Secretary] Espy."

            The WSJ reports that, according to an MIT survey, Americans are twice
as likely to back a tax increase going toward the search for extraterrestrials
than one for gene-cloning research.

            The NYT reports that today's issue of the journal Science will
describe an experiment in which people's biological clocks were reset three
hours by shining a bright light on the back of their knees. The finding, if it
holds up, says the Times , may lead to a simple way for airline travelers
to fight jet lag.

            Yesterday's Los Angeles Times ran a story under the headline "Paula
Jones Works on Her Court Appearance," which, illustrated by pictures of Jones,
was all about the various looks she's had since stepping on the public stage.
The piece concluded that she's finally graduated to an image that's
"sophisticated yet soft." Today's WP "Style" section (that's the
opposite of substance, remember) picks up that ball and runs with it, with a
lengthy discourse on the new PJ. "It is," hyperventilates
the Post , one of the most jaw-dropping public make-overs ever." Jones
apparently has "smoothed the frizzy mane of curls that once reached to such
dazzling heights. Her makeup is now subtle and based on natural, not neon,
hues. Her clothing is inspired by the boardroom instead of the secretarial
pool. She has embraced the markers of dignity, refinement and power." In true
newspaper overkill fashion, the piece backs this up by consulting Cynde Watson,
national makeup artist for Bobbi Brown Essentials, and Steven Zdatny, a
historian at West Virginia University specializing in the aesthetics and
politics of hair.

            The placement of these two pieces is a PR triumph, but one carrying the
seeds of its own destruction: If people know all this work is going into making
Paula Jones seem a certain someone, doesn't that just make it obvious that
she's really somebody else?

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            Stephanopoulos Analyzes His Own Crime

            There was former Clinton aide George Stephanopoulos on ABC's This
Week this morning, furrow-browed and "heartbroken with all the evidence
coming out" against the president. Last week, when the Lewinsky story was only
a few hours old, Stephanopoulos popped up on Good Morning America to
demonstrate his concern. "These are probably the most serious allegations yet
leveled against the president. There's no question that, if they're true, they
... could lead to impeachment proceedings."

            Is Chatterbox alone in thinking there is something strange and even
disgusting about Stephanopoulos' eager show of independence from the president?
The problem isn't so much his disloyalty. Political figures turn on each other
from time to time, for good and bad reasons; we're used to it. Stephanopoulos
wants to run for the Senate and doesn't want to seem a Clinton stooge. By
lending credence to the Lewinsky charges, and treating Clinton's familiar
defenses as the lies and half-lies they seem to be, Stephanopoulos shows he's
not a fool.

            The trouble is that Stephanopoulos himself helped propagate those lies in
the first place. During the 1992 campaign, when Gennifer Flowers first brought
Clinton's philandering to public attention, Stephanopoulos--as Clinton's chief
spinner, distracter, and all-around bullshit artist--played a crucial role in
discrediting Flowers and anyone else who tried to point out the truth, namely
that Clinton had a disturbing zipper problem. (Don't say Stephanopoulos didn't
know. Again, he's not a fool.) Simply put, Stephanopoulos did as much as any
man to get the country into the mess he now so telegenically laments.

            The 1993 documentary The War Room captures some of his efforts on
tape. Early in the film, with the Flowers crisis in full bloom, Sam Donaldson
interviews Stephanopoulos, who blames it all on the "Republican attack
machine." "Gov. Clinton has no character problem," Stephanopoulos declares.
Donaldson suggests that on 60 Minutes Clinton had admitted to
infidelity. "He said he had problems in his marriage," says Stephanopoulos,
correcting Donaldson's deviation from the pre-scripted fudge-phrase of the day.
(Today, of course, the president's defenders claim that Clinton admitted
infidelity on 60 Minutes and that the fully informed voters simply
didn't care.)

            Near the end of The War Room, Stephanopoulos gets a call from someone
who apparently claims to have a list of Clinton paramours, which he is about to
publicize. Stephanopoulos skillfully bullies and cajoles him into keeping
quiet. "You would be laughed at ..." he tells the caller. "I guarantee you that
if you do this you'll never work in Democratic politics again. ... Nobody will
believe you and people will think you're scum."

            You might say that Stephanopoulos helped invent the philander-protection
techniques that seem to have made Clinton so overconfident of his ability to
not get caught. He was one of Clinton's principal enablers, to use a word
employed by Maureen Dowd in today's New York Times . When Democrats
wonder why there is so much resentment of Clinton, they don't need to look much
further than the Big Lie about philandering that Stephanopoulos, Carville (and
a cooperative campaign press corps) helped to put over in 1992.

            Now the dissembler and enabler has become the scholar and ABC News analyst.
It's as if Roy Cohn went on television in the mid-'50s to soberly rue the
damage wreaked by Sen. Joe McCarthy, without any apology for his own role. Much
has been made of the way famous wrongdoers (e.g.: Dick Morris, Marv Albert)
rebound too quickly in our celebrity culture. But usually at least a nanosecond
of contrition is required. Stephanopoulos is cashing in without even going
through the minimal motions of holding himself accountable for misleading the
country. If Clinton, as is now increasingly clear, was a time bomb waiting to
explode, then Stephanopoulos helped smuggle him into the White House and
muffled the ticking.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            Selling Land to Jews

            Last week, a 70-year-old
Palestinian real-estate dealer was murdered after he violated a new edict by
the Palestinian Authority making the sale of Arab-owned land to Jews a capital
crime. The issue of land sales has a long history as a subtheme of the
Jewish-Arab struggle.

            The
19 th century Jewish intellectuals who conceived of
Zionism --the idea that Jewish survival depends on the establishment of a
Jewish state in the biblical land of Israel--never worked out their ideology's
logistics. Jewish settlement in Palestine, then part of the decaying Ottoman
Empire, only proceeded piecemeal. In the 1880s and 1890s, about 25,000 Jews
immigrated to Palestine. Most integrated into multiethnic communities in the
cities of Jaffa, Tiberias, and Jerusalem. A second wave of 30,000 immigrants
came between 1905 and 1914, many of whom were Labor Zionists who wanted the
Jewish state to be socialist. Extolling the virtues of manual labor, they
acquired huge tracts of farmland from absentee Syrian and Lebanese landlords.
The "New Palestinian Jew ," they said, needed to be physically tougher
than the brainy shopkeepers who had been trampled in Europe.

            The Jewish National Fund was founded in 1904 for the
purpose of buying up land from Arabs. After the Ottoman Empire's defeat
in World War I, Britain acquired Palestine and promised (in the Balfour
Declaration) the creation of a Jewish state. In anticipation, Jews in Palestine
began laying the groundwork for a greater sense of national identity. The
Jewish National Fund's charter was amended to mandate that Jewish land could
never be resold to Arabs or opened to non-Jewish employees.

            Following
Jewish National Fund guidelines, farmers evicted Palestinian peasants living on
the newly acquired plots. The total number displaced was small. By 1946, Jews
owned only 7 percent of Palestine, but the perceived threat of displacement was
widespread among Arabs. Starting around 1910, Arab newspapers railed against
Jewish land acquisition. Among the peasantry, rumors spread alleging an
Anglo-Jewish conspiracy to remove Muslims from Palestine. Anxious to avoid
being blamed for Palestinian landlessness, British officials began imposing
token restrictions on Jewish land purchase in 1940. They publicly supported
Arab complaints that Jews were driving Arabs off the land.

            
Palestinians say evictions destroyed
their way of life, forcing them to move from rural Palestine to crowded cities
in search of work. They also say that the better-educated Jewish buyers had
duped illiterate peasants into selling property.

            The Arab
National Fund, created in 1931 by wealthy Arab families to purchase land for
displaced peasants, was ineffective. During the 1930s, Palestinian responses
turned violent . In 1934 Jerusalem's mufti, the spiritual leader of the
city's Muslims, decreed that believers were duty bound to murder other Muslims
who sold land to Jews. Arabs, who outnumbered Jews by more than 2-to-1,
revolted against Jewish land acquisition and British promises of Jewish
nationhood. About 5,000 Arabs and several hundred Jews were killed in riots and
guerrilla attacks between 1936 and 1939.

            Zionists argued that the land purchases benefited all the
territory's residents. Jewish immigrants introduced modern agricultural
technology , which increased productivity and helped fill the markets with
food to feed the growing Arab population. Zionists also maintain that Jews
became a lucrative market for Arab-manufactured goods.

            Some
historians trace Palestinian landlessness to Palestine's entry into the
world economy in the 1880s. Urban commerce drew some peasants from their
family farms. Other subsistence farmers found themselves competing with
cash-crop entrepreneurs (Jews and Arabs) whose successes changed the face of
Palestinian agriculture. Jewish land purchases were not the primary factor,
these historians say.

            
Very little of the land owned today by
individual Jews and the Israeli government was acquired by purchase. Jewish
sovereignty and ownership were established the way these things usually are: by
war. Israel confiscated all land owned by the British government, mostly desert
and mountains, after the 1948 War of Independence . Property owned by
Arab refugees, who either fled war zones or were forced from their homes by the
Israeli army (another long-standing controversy), was also taken over by
individual Jews or confiscated by the government. Many Palestinians, however,
stayed put, retained their land, and became Israeli citizens.

            A new
school of Jewish historians is more critical of the dislocations caused by
Jewish land acquisition, and concludes that it was not always fair. One popular
theory compares Zionism's imperative to acquire land to the American idea of
Manifest Destiny (that it was the United States' God-given right to rule
from coast to coast). Others argue that it was a mistake for the Jewish
National Fund to prohibit non-Jewish laborers from the newly purchased lands.
However, even these revisionists agree that the Jews had not intended to evict
Muslims from Palestine.

            Israeli security officials believed that the murdered
real-estate dealer was executed by plainclothes Palestinian Authority
police. The Palestinian Authority's decision to make the sale of land to Jews a
capital crime reflects Palestinian frustration with Israeli land use,
specifically the creation of a new Jewish neighborhood now under
construction in East Jerusalem.

            In the past, death
threats have done little to deter sales of land. According to British land
records, the Jerusalem mufti's 1934 decree failed to prevent sales. But that
decree did not have the power of civil law behind it. Nevertheless, the
incentives to sell at the market price are substantial, and if the threats
create new scarcities, higher prices will probably encourage sellers to unload
their land.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            Fetal Viability

            "Viability" has become the
focus of the abortion debate. Last week, the Senate rejected Majority Leader
Tom Daschle's bill banning the abortion of "viable fetuses." But William
Bennett and William Safire hailed Daschle's bill as the great compromise that
might settle a quarter century of arguments about abortion. Forty-one states
already restrict the abortion of viable fetuses. What is a viable fetus? How is
the concept of viability relevant to the moral and legal issues of
abortion?

            
               Roe
vs. Wade , the 1973 case legalizing abortion, made fetal viability an
important legal concept . The Supreme Court ruled that states cannot put
the interests of a fetus ahead of the interests of the pregnant woman until the
fetus is "viable." The court defined viable to mean capable of prolonged life
outside the mother's womb. It said this included fetuses that doctors expected
to be sustained by respirators. The court accepted the conventional medical
wisdom that a fetus becomes viable at the start of the last third of a
pregnancy, the third trimester, sometime between the 24 th and
28 th week (a pregnancy usually lasts 38 weeks). Because the point of
viability varies, the court ruled, it could only be determined case by case and
by the woman's own doctor. Even if the fetus is viable, the court said, states
could not outlaw an abortion if the woman's life or health was at stake.

            Justice Sandra Day O'Connor argued in a 1983 decision that
Roe was on a "collision course with itself." She said that
improvements in technology would continually push the point of fetal
viability closer to the beginning of the pregnancy, allowing states greater
opportunity to regulate the right to an abortion. And this seems to be the
case--up to a point. Doctors now believe a fetus can become viable during the
23 rd week--a week earlier than was thought 24 years ago. Most
hospitals will only perform abortions through the 22 nd week of
pregnancy.

            But no
baby has ever been successfully delivered before the middle of the
22 nd week. Babies delivered during the 22 nd and
23 rd weeks weigh just over a pound. Their lungs have barely
formed and their airways are not developed enough to inhale. Circulation
depends on the use of ventilators and injections of hormones. A baby born
during the 22 nd week has a 14.8 percent chance of survival. And
about half of these survivors are brain-damaged, either by lack of oxygen (from
poor initial respiration) or too much oxygen (from the ventilator).
Neonatologists predict that no baby will ever be viable before the
22 nd week, because before then the lungs are not fully formed.

            
Probability of survival increases for babies
born later in pregnancy: 25 percent in the 23 rd week, 42 percent in
the 24 th week, 57 percent in 25 th week. By the
30 th week, when a newborn doesn't require a ventilator to breathe,
it has a 90 percent chance of survival. And only after the 30 th week
do the risks of long-term brain damage begin to substantially subside. Because
premature babies depend on technology, survival rates vary based on access
to that technology . For instance, in rural communities, which commonly lack
expensive infant intensive-care units, survival rates in these early weeks are
much lower.

            Doctors
assess a fetus's viability by attempting to guess whether its lungs have
formed. Sonograms allow doctors to estimate the fetus's weight, which
correlates with the lungs' development, and to look for signs--such as the
development of functioning eyelids and creases in the skin--that
coincide with the onset of a functioning respiratory system. None of the
methods for predicting viability are very precise.

            Despite important Supreme Court decisions since 1973
modifying the doctrine of Roe , the court's thinking about fetal
viability has remained fairly constant . The only significant revision
came in the Casey decision (1992), which made viability even more
important. The court said that state laws could require a woman and her doctor
to perform tests to prove that a fetus is not viable before she obtains an
abortion.

            Forty-one
states now have laws restricting post-viability abortions. Some allow doctors
to decide for themselves if the fetus is viable. Some require doctors to
perform tests to prove a fetus is pre-viable and require multiple doctors to
certify the findings. Eleven states have banned the procedure called intact
dilation and extraction (IDE)--also known as partial-birth abortion --in
the belief that this procedure is used mainly post-viability.

            
Banning IDEs nationwide is a major goal of the
pro-life movement. Movement adherents claim that the IDE procedure--in which
delivery is induced, the fetus's skull is crushed, and its brains are
suctioned--amounts to infanticide. Barring this procedure is also the only
regulation of abortion that public-opinion polls say has a majority of
support. Pro-choicers say the ban on IDEs is inconsistent with Roe ,
because the procedure can be used to abort pre-viable fetuses.

            Some medical ethicists
and constitutional scholars say that the Supreme Court was wrong to create
the pre-viability/post-viability distinction in the first place. Why, they ask,
does the fact that a fetus can survive outside the womb with the help of vast
medical technology change either of the interests at war in the abortion
debate: the fetus's own claim to "human-ness" and a woman's right to control
her body? Even if viability is an important moral line, is it drawn in the
right place? Keeping alive a baby born in the 22 nd week costs
several hundred thousand dollars and usually fails, regardless of the
effort.

            The fuss over post-viability
abortions ultimately concerns only a very small number of procedures .
Less than one percent of all abortions performed take place after the
21 st week. In 1992, only 1,070 abortions were performed after the
25 th week.

         
      
   

   
      
         
            Red Pants



            While writers whose business it is to be witty
often fail to produce, grave authors occasionally
are mirthful when laughter is farthest from their
minds.  From a lifetime of undisciplined reading with
innocent pencil in hand and malice prepense in mind,
I have gleaned a harvest of what I am pleased to denominate
Red Pants items, a sampling of which follows.
My designation derives from a splash of vivid
writing in Francis Thompson's  A Corymbus for Autumn
in which he proclaims how day's dying dragon
was


Panting red pants into the West.
            

            In this trousers category, Thompson must share the
limelight with Coleridge by virtue of the line in Kubla
Khan :


As if this earth in fast thick pants were breathing.
            

            Even Shelley may stake a claim, if only in the pajama
division of this sector, thanks to his description in
Epipsychidion of how


... the slow, silent night
Is measured by the pants of their calm sleep.
            

            Since everthing is to be found in Shakespeare, it is not
surprising that on at least two occasions the Board has
contributed his own Red Pants nuggets.  In Antony and
Cleopatra (Act IV, Scene VIII, lines 14 et seq .)  Antony
commands the wounded Scarus to


... leap thou, attire and all,
Through proof of harness to my heart, and there
Ride on the pants triumphing.
            

            And in Othello (Act II, Scene I, line 80) Cassio utters
the fervent prayer that Othello might

            Make love's quick pants in Desdemona's arms.

            A variation on this theme occurs in Alba de Cspedes'
The Secret (translated from the Italian by Isabel
Quigly: Simon and Schuster, New York, 1958, page
114) where she confides that I still had a whole afternoon
before me to spend, and I used it to tidy up my
drawers....  One may well wonder what Miss Stowe
had in mind when, in Uncle Tom's Cabin (Chapter 5),
she narrates how Mrs. Shelby stood like one stricken.
Finally, turning to her toilet, she rested her face in her
hands, and gave a sort of groan.  In this same vein, the
mirthless Milton adds his bit to the general hilarity of
nations when, in describing Mount Etna in Book I of
Paradise Lost (lines 236-7) he penned


And leave a singed bottom all involved
With stench and smoke: ...
            

            And in Chapter VI of Vanity Fair , when Blenkinsop,
the housekeeper, sought to console Amelia for Joe
Sedley's jilting of her dear Rebecca, Thackeray confides
(indelicately?)  that Amelia wept confidentially on
the housekeeper's shoulder and relieved herself a good
deal.

            Chuckles often emanate from the British employment
of a term in a sense at variance with American
usage.  There is that oft-quoted example, near the
opening of Trial by Jury , where Defendant asks, Is
this the Court of the Exchequer? and having been
assured that it was, Defendant (aside) commands himself
to Be firm, be firm, my pecker.  The British, of
course, do not giggle at this bit of Gilbertian dialogue,
since to them pecker means `courage,' as in the phrase
to keep your pecker up.  Two of the more common
examples of British-American divergence of usage are
screw and knock up .  In Vanity Fair (Chapter 39), the
niggardly Sir Pitt was not nearly the aerial acrobat
your American sophomore might fancy him to be
when he screwed his tenants by letter.  He was simply
making extortionate exactions upon his wretched lessees.
Similarly, when in Chapter XXXIV of the same
novel, Mrs. Bute reminds her husband that You'd have
been screwed in goal, Bute, if I had not kept your
money, she was not speaking of pleasures deferred.  In
Bleak House (Chapter XXVII) Grandfather
Smallweed, referring to Mr. George, warns Mr.
Tulkinghorn that I have him periodically in a vice.  I'll
twist him, sir.  I'll screw him, sir.  In Kipling's The
Light That Failed (Chapter XIII), Torpenhow urges
Dick to attend a party that night, We shall be half
screwed before the morning, is his dismal sales pitch
to Dick.

            In Chapter VI of Vanity Fair , Thackeray reports
on Joe Sedley's drunken avowal to wed Becky Sharp the
next morning, even if he had to knock up the Archbishop
of Canterbury at Lambeth, in order to have
him in readiness to perform the ceremony.  In Great
Expectations (Chapter VI), we learn how ... Mr.
Whopsle, being knocked up, was in such a very bad
temper.  And who could blame him?

            Many a raucous snigger has been sniggered from
the pure-minded use of a word that suggests unmentionable
parts of the human body.  It does not take a
too-wicked mind to read into such terms meanings of a
lewd nature.  Who can, for instance, blame a youth
with but a mildly evil disposition from guffawing
when he reads in Pater's Marius The Epicurean (Chapter
V) a reference to Apuleius' The Golden Ass noting
that all through the book, there is an unmistakably
real feeling for asses ...?  In Scott's The Bride of
Lammermoor (Chapter VII), one reads about a boy
cudgelling an ass, and one goes back over the passage
to reassure himself that it does not contain a typographical
error for cuddling.

            One may be indulged a giggle even though he is
sure that Isak Dinesen did not intend an impropriety
when she recorded in Out of Africa (Part V, Chapter
4) how Fathima's big white cock came strutting up
before me.  And one is certain that Kenneth Rexroth,
in his American Poetry in the Twentieth Century
(Herder and Herder, N.Y., 1971) did not intend to hint
at closet biographical matter when, in Chapter I, he
wrote that Whitman's poems are full of men doing
things together, or, later in the same chapter, when he
referred to Whitman's joyous workmen swinging their
tools in the open air.  College freshman still read with
flendish glee the first line in Canto I of Spenser's The
Faerie Queene (and never mind the title!) that tells
how

            A Gentle Knight was pricking on the plaine.

            In his poem Mr Nixon (from Hugh Selwyn Mauberley ),
Ezra Pound's Mr. Nixon advises kindly

            Don't kick against the pricks,

            although the identities of the latter are not divulged.

            One is entitled to speculate on what outrageous
proposal the narrator had made in Proust's Remembrance
of Things Past, Vol. 2Cities of the Plain
(translated by C. K. Scott MoncrieffModern Library,
N.Y., 1934, Page 90) to cause the Duchess to say,
Apart from your balls, can't I be of any use to you?
There is a famous letter penned by Rupert Brooke to
his friend, Edward Marsh, from somewhere near Fiji
(p. 463 of A Treasury of the World's Great Letters ,
Simon and Schuster, N.Y., 1940) in which he relates
how he sends his native boy up a palm tree, where he
cuts off a couple of vast nuts ... (macho victim not
disclosed).  In the first chapter of Uncle Tom's Cabin ,
Miss Stowe offers a dialogue between Haley and Mr.
Shelby, part of which goes,  `Well,' said Haley, after
they had both silently picked their nuts for a season,
`what do you say?'   In Bleak House (Chapter XXIV)
Dickens may cause some readers to blush when he
wrote of Mr. George's blush that He reddened a little
through his brown.

            We must move ineluctably to a consideration of
perfectly reputable words which, having acquired sexual
connotations, cause adolescentand often adult
hilarity, even when read by a person of only mildly
prurient mind.  In Forster's A Passage to India (Chapter
XXXI) a vivid picture is created by the sentence
Tangles like this still interrupted their intercourse.
Pages later (Chapter XXXVII), it is acknowledged that
He, too, felt that this was their last free intercourse.
Apparently from then on, it was going to have to be
cash or credit card only.  In The Bride of Lammermoor
(Chapter V), we are informed that the heroine placed
certain restrictions on their intercourse, a limitation
that might have been more usefully set in that same
author's Rob Roy (Chapter VII) where we are told of
the chance that the narrator and Miss Vernon might be
thrown into very close and frequent intercourse.

            A variation of this theme is found in Robert
Browning's The Flight of the Duchess (Section V):


Not he!  For in Paris they told the elf
Our rough North land was the Land of Lays,
            

            even though it is generally acknowledged that Paris is
nmero uno in this area of human activity.

            More picturesque are the references to erections.
An arresting one occurs in A Passage to India (Chapter
XXI) in which Forster describes a small building as a
flimsy and frivolous erection, while in The Mayor of
Casterbridge (Chapter XVI) the Mayor himself beheld
the unattractive exterior of Farfrae's erection.  A
phrase can paint an astonishing picture for the reader.

            Consider Dickens' sharp image in Bleak House (Chapter
LIV) when he describes how Sir Leicester leans
back in his chair, and breathlessly ejaculates.... 
Or, in Nicholas Nickleby (Chapter XLVII), where that
admirable novelist graphically portrays how old Arthur
Gride again raised his hands, again chuckled,
and again ejaculated.  And in his short tale, Lionizing ,
Edgar Allan Poe is quite candid in describing the reaction
of one of his characters:  ` Admirable! ' he ejaculated,
thrown quite off his guard by the beauty of the
manoeuvre.

            Alas for perfectly lovely words that acquire pejorative
meanings over the years!  Earlier in this century,
pansy became a derogatory epithet to describe an effete
male, thereby cheapening forever lines like Shelley's
noble image in Adonais (verse XXXIII):


His head was bound with pansies over-blown,
            

            not to mention Poe's odd allusion in For Annie :


With rue and the beautiful Puritan pansies.
            

            Or, more slap-stickish, E.F. Benson's action picture in
Lucia in London (Chapter 8): Georgie stepped on a
beautiful pansy.

            Of more recent vintage is gay .  Nobody used to
snicker at Chaucer's line (No. 5818) in The Prologe of
the Wyf of Bathe , in which that harried dame asks:


Why is my neghebores wif so gay?
            

            In his poem The Menagerie , one of William
Vaughan Moody's characters advises:


If nature made you so graceful, don't get gay,
            

            while in Othello (ah, the Bard again!)  in his dialogue
with Desdemona and Emilia on the praise of women,
Iago refers to the kind that


Never lack'd gold, and yet went never gay.

(Act II, Scene I, line 150)
            

            And what in the world is one to make of William
Butler Yeats's startling revelation in his poem Lapis
Lazuli (from Last Poems ) that


They know that Hamlet and Lear are gay.?
            

            Indeed it is an amusing, albeit utterly wasteful
pastime to pursue the quest for Red Pants examples.
May good cess befall all such quixotically misguided
readers!  One caveat: never assume blithely that an odd
word or suspicious phrase is as lubricious as it sounds.
In The Bride of Lammermoor (Chapter VI) Bucklaw
vows, I will chop them off with my whinger, and one
feels quite let down when he learns that a whinger is
but a whinyard, which is merely a short sword.
         
         
            
Turning a corner of the Mazza Gallerie into a women's
tennis store, I was startled to see ... hordes of giggling high
school girls ...  [From an article by Dorothy Gilliam in
the Washington Post , .  Submitted by .]
         
         
            LIGHT REFRACTIONS




            If you are a fan of old-fashioned jazzwhat is now
known as traditional or trad jazzyou are familiar
with one of the standard jump tunes of the
genrea tune most commonly called Muskrat Ramble .
Even if you are not a fan, you must have heard it
as least a dozen times.  It is the one that goes, Dah!
Dah!  Dah!  Dah!  da-dat-dat-dah!  Da-de-da-de-da-de-dat-dat-dah
!  da-de-da-de-da-de-dat-dat-dah!


That's it; sure; you've heard it.
            

            I think I first bought a recording of Muskrat Ramble
back in about 1940, when I was in my early teens.
My memory is rickety, but I am sure my first recording
was labeled MUSKRAT RAMBLE, and I think, though I
am less sure, that it was played by the late Muggsy
Spanier, who was, to my mind, one of the greatest of
jazz trumpeters.  Later, I got another recording of the
same tune, this one by, I think, Mezz Mezzrow.  The
label said, MUSKAT RAMBLE.  I thought that was surely
the first time I had ever seen such an obvious typographical
error in, of all things, a simple title on a
simple 78-rpm record.  (This, remember, was in my
youth, and it was a time when typographical errors
were called typographical errors, not typosat least
by kids in junior high.)  Some time later, I got still
another version of MUSKRAT RAMBLE, with still another
version of the title.  This time, it was MUSCAT RAMBLE.
That, I thought, was really absurd.  Not only had they
left out the R; they'd changed the K to C.  Now, it
made no sense at all.  On the other hand, I reasoned, if
there were, in fact, some sort of cat called a muscat,
perhaps it wasn't so outrageous.  I looked up muscat in
my Webster's and found that it is a `variety of grape.'
To name a ramble after a variety of grape seemed to
me preposterous.  I was young and, by today's standards,
at least, pathetically innocent.

            During my time in senior high, and, after that, in
the Army Air Force, I had other things on my mind
(there was a war on, after all), and I didn't give
the MUSKRAT-MUSKAT-MUSCAT RAMBLE problem any
thought.

            Speaking of my time in the AAF, which was utterly
undistinguished, I think I must make a confession.
Now might be as good a time as any to reveal a
theft I committed at an Air Force Base near Seymour,
Indiana.  It was winter and bitterly cold.  The wind
used to sweep across that damned airfield with what
seemed an absolute determination to crystallize our
bodies.  One day when the wind chill factor was nearing
absolute zero, I took shelter in the service club.
There was the omnipresent phonograph, or Vic , short
for Victrola, and the stack of records next to it.  In
those days, people as a rule did not take much care of
phonograph records.  Usually the records were taken
from their jackets and loaded naked in stacks, where
they picked up dust, scratched one another, and
traded static electricity.  I was shuffling through a stack
of about fifty records, and I came across three Bessie
Smiths.  I played all three, and the few other G.I.s in
the room, which was quite largebig enough for a
fair-sized dance with a small orchestraeither paid
no attention or asked me to put on something by Glenn
Miller or Jimmy or Tommy Dorsey instead.  Among
Bessie's numbers were Dying Gambler's Blues, Sing
Sing Prison Blues , and one I had never heard called
Black Mountain Blues , which has the imcomparable
lines,


Home in Black Mountain a chile' will smack yo'
face;

Home in Black Mountain a chile' will smack yo'
face;

Babies cry for liquor an' all the birds sing bass.
            

            and


Goin' back to Black Mountain, me an' my razor
an' my gun;

Goin' back to Black Mountain, me an' my razor
an my gun;

Goin' cut him if he stan' still, goin' shoot him if he
run.
            

            I was, and still am, captivated by Babies cry for
liquor an' the birds sing bass, and in the arrogance of
my youth, I was certain that nobody else on the airfield
either knew or cared who Bessie Smith was, nor
would any other G.I. be enchanted by basso birds, so I
turned thief.  I can't remember how I did it, but somehow
I smuggled those records back to my barracks and
got them home intact on my next furlough.  I kept
them in good shape until my last 78-rpm turntable
died.

            End of digression and back to MUSKRAT-KAT-CAT:
Muskrat Ramble is credited to Edward Kid Ory and
Ray Gilbert.  Kid Ory played great jazz trombone.
The only thing I know about Gilbert is that I find him
listed as co-author of Muskrat Ramble .

            About thirty years ago, when I was concocting an
epicurean dish and saw that I had no sherry on hand, I
went to the liquor store and bought a bottle of muscatel
that was being sold for an absurdly low price and
that I thought might be exactly right for my sauce.  It
wasn't bad, The wine jogged my thoughts back to
Muscat Ramble .  Muscatel is made from muscat
grapes, is sometimes called muscat , and, being relatively
cheap and sweet and high in alcohol content, is
the booze of choice for a great many wines.  An old
college friend of mine who celebrated his twentieth
birthdaymeaning twenty years of AA sobrietya
couple of years ago, tells me that when he was on the
skids and riding the rails from drunk tank to drunk
tank, the favorite terms for muscat were muscadoodle
and Napa Valley smoke .

            I made up my mind that Muscat Ramble was
almost certainly the original name of the tune.  My
reasoning is that it is not likely that Kid Ory or Ray
Gilbert had ever seen a muskrat, and it's even less
likely that they or anyone else has ever seen a muskrat
doing anything that we would be likely to think of as
rambling.  Muskrats, according to my encyclopedia,
look like giant rats, are found in and around the
mudbanks bordering marshes and quiet ponds, have
partially webbed feet, and do a good deal of swimming.
They do not appear to do much rambling.  Muscat,
or muscatel, on the other hand, is found on skid
rows all over the land.  A guy with a bottle-shaped
brown paper bag, damp and wrinkled at its upper
end, has almost certainly been slugging down a sweet
wine of high proof, and the odds are pretty good you
would find it is a muscadoodle .  After the guy finishes
his Napa Valley smoke and has slept it off, he is looking
for the means to get another muscat fix.  Now he is on a
ramble with his hand out and a pleading look in his
roadmapped eyes.  I suspect that that is precisely the
song's origin.

            My theory is that the r got put in there simply
because muskrat is a more common word than muscat .
It is the same reason most of us, I assume, have heard,
He's in the hospital with prostrate trouble.  Prostrate
is a more common word that prostate , so prostrate is
what we get.  The r fits in naturally.  I got a strange
sort of corroboration from my good friend Rosy
McHargue, who is now pushing eighty-seven years and
has spent most of his life playing clarinet and sax with
some of the best jazzbandsBenny Goodman, Red
Nichols, Ted Weems, and a slew of others.  Rosy, too,
had seen the tune as Muskrat, Muskat , and Muscat .  I
asked him what he thought the original title was.  He
had known Kid Ory well, and he said, You know,
Tom, I'm not exactly sure.  I once asked Ory about it
and he said, `It's m-u-s-c-a-t.  Muskrat .'  So I think that's
just the way everyone said muscat .

            There you are.  I find a muskrat ramble difficult to
imagine visually.  I picture muskrats wallowing about
in the mire and paddling sluggishly through the water,
but I wouldn't call that rambling.  On the other hand,
a wino with an empty paper bag on a ramble to maintain
his muscat levelnow that has a touch of poetry.
Maybe not in the same class with all the birds sing
bass, but poetry, nevertheless.
         
         

            As a nonexpert, although interested, subscriber to
VERBATIM, it is a bit mysterious to me that the singular
noun absence takes the plural verb are .  I refer to
the first sentence of your article about the Longman
Dictionary [XV,1].



         
         

            Helen W. Power, in Women on Language;
Women in Language, [XV,2] may bewail the insensitivity
of the male.  But she betrays her own elitist insensitivity
when she describes a flight attendant as the
person who passes peanuts on an airplane.  I hope
Ms./Miss/Mrs. Power never needs to draw on the considerable
first-aid and emergency training that every
attendant must master.



         
         
            Antipodean Newsletter



            Leonard Bloomfield, having begun with a theory
of meaning which emphasized the environment in
which objects were present and named, had to add the
obvious proviso that we sometimes mention what is
not present.  I have lately been reading accounts of the
exploration of the western and northwestern deserts of
Australia in the 1870s and I have become very aware of
the effect absent necessities might have on the frequency
of particular items in discourse.  In the desert
the missing necessity is water.  As the explorer Ernest
Giles put it, the explorer's experience is a baptism
worse than that of firethe baptism of no water.

            My impression was that in the journals of desert
explorers the word water , alone or in compounds, and
words relating to water, were unusually frequent.  It is,
I suppose, likely that people with little money must
think of money more than the well-off do and that the
hungry will dwell on thoughts of food and the thirsty
on drink.  Here was a chance to quantify such things.  I
decided to make a count of words relating to water in
reports of desert exploration.

            Taking quite at random a single page (page 7) in
the journals of the Gregory brothers recording an early
(1846) exploration of country east and north of Perth, I
find the word water used fifteen times.  Ten pages on
(page 17), water occurs nine times but there are also
the related words stream (twice), well (twice), pool,
channel , and the circumlocution essential element.
Two words, dew and shower , refer in the context to the
presence of water; the rest are in contexts indicating its
absence.

            I tried another explorer, Ernest Giles.  Taking
page 17 again, I was reminded that Giles is rather
given to semi-serious poetic diction at times, and we
find him referring to the presence of water in the Finke
River as the stream purling over its stony floor or,
quoting some bygone poet, brightly the brook through
the green leaflets, giddy with joyousness, dances
along.  Perhaps present water called for some stylistic
celebration.  Two hundred pages further on there is less
exuberance in the circumlocution that fluid so terribly
scarce in the region, and in three other references
water is simply water .  Giles is not always waxing poetic
and may, like other explorers, be useful as a source
for the history of Australian and general English.  His
use of the word tank to refer to a hollowed-out reservoir
(Gibson dug a small tank and the water soon
cleared) antedates the OED , for instance.

            Since this linguistic-statistical study of an obsession
might well prove to be an important contribution
to psycholinguistics, I decided to make a larger sample
of watery words, choosing the straightforward journals
of Colonel Peter Egerton Warburton, who led an expedition
across the western interior of Australia in
1873-4.  In a randomly chosen sequence of ten pages
(151-60 of the published journal) there were twenty-eight
occurrences of the word water (eight of them in
compounds), no page being without at least one example.
In addition, there was a rich collection of words
relating to water, not necessarily indicating its presence.
Hoping to find a lake is included, though of
course it doesn't indicate the presence of water.  Even
words which are usually of more general reference are
brought into relation with water in a text like this.
Gum-trees or rocks (in areas of sand) appear as signs of
possible water.  Apart from these words and lake ,
words and phrases directly associated with thoughts of
water and reinforcing the sense of obsession include
pool, springs, drainage hole, clay hole, flood, channel,
water-courses, water-hole, rock-hole, drink, drinkable,
running water, stream , and native well .

            The last two items merit comment.  Stream is often
said not to be used in Australia except in metaphorical
ways, normally being replaced by creek .
Warburton's use: sandbanks intercept the stream,
which finally splits into narow water-courses and
spreads itself over the plains, and so it ends as a creek
suggests a somewhat more complex relation between
the two words.  British-born explorers did not set out to
write Australian English, of course.  Gregory uses
stream in the way normal in England; Giles consistently
refers to gens in the hills of central Australia,
though glen is not current (outside place-names) in
contemporary Australian English.

            The other name, native well is, as a later explorer
David Carnegie, author of Spinifex and Sand (1898),
points out, a misnomer.  He believes native wells are
essentially rock-holes (depressions in rock) buried in
fairly shallow sand, which, when hollowed out by the
natives, appear to be wells.  This sort of misnomer
leads Carnegie to suppose that to the uninitiated no
map is so misleading as that of West Australia where
lakes are salt-bogs without surface water, springs seldom
run, and native `wells' are merely tiny holes in the
rock, yielding from 0 to 200 gallons.

            Carnegie also describes namma-holes and soaks as
sources of water.  Soaks are shallow wells sunk near the
base of an outcrop to tap an underground reservoir.
Namma-holes have been variously described; to Carnegie
they are depressions on the surface of rocks, often
with a rounded bottom, where stones are often found,
suggesting that the stones have something to do with
the formation of the holes.

            Some nostalgic early Australians deplored the loss
in our speech of English country words, the glens and
streams (alive, anyway, in the journals of explorers),
coppices and brooks, woods, becks , and rivulets .  Perhaps
these words did not really fit.  We might have
done better with Arabic-speaking settlers.  Wadi , for
instance, would describe an inland creek rather well.
Be that as it may, a later Australian visitor to English
drizzle might feel nostalgic when thinking of the
parched and thirsty but water-obsessed vocabulary developed
in the drier areas of our sunburnt land.
         
         
            Favorite Grammatical Game: Puzzling Pronouns




            Here is a game just made to while away the hours
on a commuter train with your favorite author,
a perfect place to hunt for Puzzling Pronouns .

            
               Fowler lists five instances where a careless writer
can go wrong.  There is really no excuse, Fowler says
(not he says!), but here we give examples of his third
case only, where there should not be two parties justifying
even a momentary doubt about which the pronoun
represents.  And here the deluge of printed matter
abounds with such specimens that one would
suppose them to be the rule rather than the exceptions.
It is a game that is like fishing in a barrel, but more
stimulating mentally.  I am not picking on the following
authors; it is just a random catch.

            In Thomas Hardy's The Hand of Ethelberta , it is
suggested by Ethelberta that she and some others go to
see Milton's tomb in Cripplegate church.  Her suitor,
Neigh, who had proposed marriage in a previous
chapter, appears somewhat apprehensive at Ethelberta's
suggestion.  This apprehension is observed by a
Mr. Belmaine and mistaken by him for an indication
that Neigh has been dragged into going to the church
against his will by his over-hasty wife.  One wonders
whether the marriage had secretly taken place between
the consecutive chapters!  You see, it is
Belmaine's wife who was doing the dragging.

            Somerset Maugham was a good and careful grammarian
but now and then he slipped.  In The Letter , a
solicitor, Mr. Joyce, is approached by a Mr. Crosbie:


He spoke beautiful English, accenting each word
with precision, and Mr. Joyce had often wondered
at the extent of his vocabulary....
            

            Sometimes I wonder about the extent of my own vocabulary,
too, but really, not when I'm interviewing a
client.

            From The Once and Future King , by T. H.
White:


Naturally it was Lancelot who rescued her.  Sir Boss
had managed to find him at the abbey, during his
two days' absence, and now he came back in the
nick of time to fight Sir Mador for the queen.  Nobody
who knew him would have expected him to
do anything else, whether he had been sent away in
disgrace or notbut, as it was thought he had left
the country, his return did have a dramatic quality.
            

            Not to say a quality of confusionpronoun-cedly so.

            From Oh What a Paradise it Seems , by John
Cheever:


The size of Chisholm's teeth, the thickness of his
glasses, his stoop and the spring with which he
walked all marked him, Sears thought, as a single-minded
reformer.  His marriage, Sears guessed,
would have been unsuccessful and his children
would have difficulty finding themselves.
            

            No wonder  we've lost them already.

            Mark Twain poses us a little mystery in Pudd'nhead
Wilson: which knife does the killing?  Quiet now.
Lights, action:


I was asleep, but Luigi was awake, and he thought
he detected a vague form nearing the bed.  He
slipped the knife out of the sheath and was ready,
and unembarrassed by hampering bedclothes, for
the weather was hot and we hadn't any.  Suddenly
that native rose at the bedside, and bent over me
with his right hand lifted and a dirk in it aimed at
my throat; but Luigi grabbed his wrist, pulled him
downward, and drove his own knife into the man's
neck.  That is the whole story.
            

            Well, was it Luigi's knife or the native's?  If we had only
that scene to go by we would never really know, and
all because of a Puzzling Pronoun or two!


Oh, it can lead one to a rhymed couplet:

He loves his brother and his wife,
Does he live a double life?
            

            Give me my grammatical games any day to a crossword
puzzle.
         
         
            The Joys and Oys of Yiddish



            Rabbi Robert Schenkerman
            Temple Beth Jacob
            When Isaac Bashevis Singer was awarded the
Nobel Prize for Literature in 1978, he remarked
in his acceptance speech:


The high honor bestowed upon me is also a recognition
of the Yiddish languagea language of exile,
without a land, without frontiers, not supported
by any government, a language which
possesses no words for weapons, ammunition, military
exercises, war tactics.

There is a quiet humor in Yiddish and a gratitude
for every day of life, every crumb of success,
each encounter of love.  In a figurative way, Yiddish
is the wise and humble language of us all, the idiom
of a frightened and hopeful humanity.
            

            The word Yiddish derives from the German
judisch `Jewish.'  The principal parent of Yiddish is
High German, the form of German encountered by
Jewish settlers from northern France in the eleventh
century.  Yiddish is written in the characters of the
Hebrew alphabet and from right to left and enjoys
borrowing words from Russian, Polish, English, and
all the other languages and countries along the routes
that Jews have traveled during the past thousand years.
Journalist Charles Rappaport once quipped, I speak
ten languagesall of them Yiddish.

            Although Yiddish has been in danger of dying out
for hundreds of years, the language is spoken today by
millions of people throughout the worldRussia, Poland,
Rumania, France, England, Israel, Africa,
Latin America, New Zealand, Australia, Canada, and
the United States, where, like the bagel, it was leavened
on both coasts, in New York and Hollywood.  It is
spoken even in Transylvania: A beautiful girl awakens
in bed to find a vampire at her side.  Quickly she holds
up a cross. Zie gernisht helfen, smiles the vampire.
Translation: It won't do you any good.

            Most of us already speak a fair amount of Yiddish
(Yinglish) without fully realizing it.  Webster's Third
New International Dictionary lists about 500 Yiddish
words that have become part of our everyday conversations,
including:


cockamamy (or cockamamie) `mixed-up, ridiculous.'

fin slang for `five-dollar bill,' from finf, the Yiddish
word for `five.'

gun moll a double clipping of gonif's Molly, Yiddish
for `thief's girl.'

kibitzer `one who comments, often in the form of
unwanted advice, during a game, often cards.'

mavin `expert.'

mazuma `money.'

mish-mosh `mess.'

schlep to `drag or haul.'

schlock `shoddy, cheaply produced merchandise.'

schmeer the `entire deal,' the `whole package.'

schnoz slang for `nose.'

yenta `blabbermouth, gossip; woman of low
origins.'
            

            ... and so on through the whole megillah : `long,
involved story.'

            A number of poignant Yiddish words defy genuine
translation into English:


chutzpa `nerve; unmitigated gall;' a quality we
admire within ourselves, but never in others.  In
his delightful study, The Joys of Yiddish (McGraw-Hill
1968), Leo Rosten offers two classic
definitions.  Chutzpa is that quality enshrined in
a man, who, having killed his mother and father,
throws himself on the mercy of the court because
he is an orphan.  A chutzpanik may be defined as
the man who shouts `Help!  Help!'  while beating
you up.

mensch a `real authentic human beinga person.'
naches the `glow of pleasure-plus-pride that only
a child can give to its parents': This is my son,
the Doctor!

oy not so much a word as an entire vocabulary, as
Rosten observes: can express any emotion, from
trivial delight to the blackest woe.

oy vay; oy vay in mir literally, Oh, pain, but, in
its long or short form, can be used for anything
from condolence to lament:

On August 6, 1945, the world's first nuclear
weapon was dropped on Hiroshima, Japan.  Two
hundred and eighty-two thousand human beings
died and tens of thousands more were left
burned, maimed, and homeless.  [Albert] Einstein,
whose letter to Roosevelt had initiated the
American effort that resulted in the atom bomb
and whose special theory of relativity formed its
theoretical basis, heard the news on the radio.
For a long time he could only find two Yiddish
words traditionally used by Jews in such circumstances:
Oi vey.

The Little, Brown Book of Anecdotes

tsuris the gamut of painful emotionssome real,
some imagined, some self-inflicted.
            

            Yiddish is especially versatile in describing those
poor souls who inhabit the world of the ineffectual,
and each is assigned a distinct place in the gallery of
pathetic types: schmo, schmendrik, schnook, schmegegge,
schlep, schlub, schmuck, putz, klutz, kvetch ,
and nudnik .  Yiddish easily coins new names for new
personalities: a nudnik is a `pest'; a phudnik is a `nudnik
with a Ph.D.'  The rich nuances that suffuse this
roll call are seen in the timeless distinction between a
schlemiel `clumsy jerk' and a schlimazel `habitual
loser': the schlemiel inevitably trips and spills his hot
soupall over the schlimazel.  (And the nebbish is the
one who has to clean it up.)

            The Yiddish language, through its color, its target-accurate
expressions, its raw idioms, and its sayings
exudes a refreshing magic and laughter, mixed with
sober thought, that has been handed down from generation
to generation and from nation to nation.  Yiddish
never apologizes for what it isthe earthy, wise
soul of an expressive people learning that life is but a
mingled yarn, good and ill together.

            Which reminds us of the zaftig `buxom, well-rounded'
blonde who wore an enormous diamond to a
charity ball.  It happens to be the third most famous
diamond in the whole world, she boasted.  The first is
the Hope diamond, then comes the Kohinoor, and then
comes this one, which is called the Lipschitz.

            What a stone!  How lucky you are!

            Wait, wait, said the lady.  Nothing in life is all
mazel [`good luck'].  Unfortunately, with this famous
Lipschitz diamond comes also the famous Lipschitz
curse.

            The other women gasped and asked, And what is
the famous Lipschitz curse?

            Lipschitz, sighed the lady.
         
         
            The Women's History of the Word
            Those who are not familiar with feminist writings
may find it useful and interesting to consider a book,
recently published in Britain, that is typical of the
harsher brand of such works.  The work in question
offers nothing regarding language, so its review here is
ancillary to the main function of VERBATIM.  The feminist
movement is very much alive in Britain, and the
Greenham Common Women are probably largely
responsible for much of the national sentiment against
the Cruise missiles installed at an American base near
that village.  In Britain, as elsewhere, most books by
feminist writers are reviewed by women, usually feminists.
Men are seldom assigned to review them, possibly
because the editor fears that they will be either
ignorant of or unsympathetic to the issues raised, if not
biased against them, or because the editor is a woman.
Because writing an unfavorable review of a (bad) feminist
book would be tantamount to treachery, such
books are often unjustifiably praised, as was the case
with this work by Rosalind Miles, which was well received
on its publication in June.

            According to the blurb on the dust jacket of this
distinctly unpleasant book, Rosalind Miles is head of
the Centre for Women's Studies at Coventry Polytechnic,
a lecturer, broadcaster, journalist, and author of
several other books, including a highly acclaimed
biography of Ben Jonson.  One might like to believe
that this gives her the cachet of authoritative scholarship,
but the text does not bear out the promise.

            For the most part, the book consists of a rewriting
of history, from the dawn of time, with the purpose of
demonstrating two main themes: the fact that
women were responsible for all the important contributions
to the advancement of civilization (as the development
of agriculture, for instance), often despite
the arrogance and stupidity of men; and the fact
that women have long been subjected to domination
by men.  Miles suggests that such domination is a recent
phenomenononly a couple of thousand years
oldfor she points to the clear superiority of women
in (primitive) religions and matriarchies, right on
through to the Egyptian dynastic rulers.  At one point,
she gets so carried away with her thesis that she suggests
that females were responsible not only for all of
human evolutionary biology but for the very notion of
counting (in order to keep track of menstruation) and,
probably by the same token, astronomy.  She quotes
(and, presumably, accepts) another source which holds
that woman first awakened in humankind the capacity
to recognize abstracts.  If you believe that balderdash,
you'll believe anything.

            In the good old days, we were taught that the
pyramids were built by tens of thousands of slaves.
Recent speculation has it that they were not slaves
butwhat would one call them?  ordinary laborers.
Here comes Miles, authoritatively quoting Diodorus,
the Greek historian, who recorded (60-30BC) that innocent
women even swelled the ranks of pitiful slaves
whose forced labour built the pyramids:


... bound in fetters, they work continually
without being allowed any rest by night or day.
They have not a rag to cover their nakedness, and
neither the weakness of age nor women's infirmities
are any plea to excuse them, but they are driven by
blows until they drop dead.  [p.49]
            

            As the pyramids were already about 2500 years old
when Diodorus wrote his World History , one is given
to wonder what his authority might have been for such
a vivid description.  It is even less comprehensible how
a modern researcher could accept it and have the effrontery
to promulgate it.  Miles's book is riddled with
many similar distortions, convenient omissions, and
generalizations:


... Women have always commanded over half
the sum total of human intelligence and creativity.
From the poet Sappho, who in the sixth century BC
was the first to use the lyric to write subjectively
and explore the range of female experience, to the
Chinese polymath Pan Chao (Ban Zhao), who
flourished around AD 100 as historian, poet, astronomer,
mathematician and educationalist, the range
is startling.  In every field, women too numerous to
list were involved in developing knowledge and
contributing to the welfare of their societies as they
did so: the Roman Fabiola established a hospital
where she worked both as nurse and doctor, becoming
the first known woman surgeon before she
died in AD 399.  [p.52]
            

            Earlier, on page 49, we learnt about Agnodice, who
lived to become the world's first known woman gynaecologist,
in the fourth century BC.  Clearly, this rosily
checkered past was soon to be replaced, chiefly, it
seems, as Judeo-Christian-Islamic-Confucian-Buddhist
cultures flourished.  It was not too bad early on,
when, according to Miles, the seven Maccabean martyrs
who saved Judaism did so only at the instigation
of their mother.  Miles continues:


In early Christianity likewise, women found not
merely a role, but an instrument of resistance to
male domination; in choosing to be a bride of
Christ they inevitably cocked a snook at lesser male
fry.  Thousands of young women helped to build
the church of God with their body, blood and
bones when frenzied fathers, husbands or fiancs
preferred to see them die by fire, sword or the
fangs of wild beasts rather than live to flout [sic]
the duty and destiny of womanhood.  [p.63]
            

            But the situation soon deteriorated:


Even St. Paul, later the unregenerate prophet of
female inferiority, was forced to acknowledge the
help he received from Lydia, the seller of purple
dyes in Philippi.  [ibid.]
            

            This rewriting of history is punctuated by an array
of four-letter invectives applied to males and by
adjectives like brilliant, unusual, inspiring , and so
forth to women.  Citing a Judaic law-book of the 16th
century which identified a woman for the days preceding,
during, and following her period as niddah
`impure,' Miles has the lack of taste to write the following:.


As a final stroke, in a grim foreshadowing of
what the future held in store for the Jews, the niddah
had to wear special clothing as a badge of her
separate and despised status.  [p.83]
            

            Here and there in this morass of misunderstanding,
Miles treads on solid ground if one can agree with
the eminent anthropologist Joseph Campbell.  Campbell,
known for his extensive analyses of the world's
mythologies, religions, and cultures, noted the marked
bias against women emerging from Judaic concepts,
later reinforced by Christian and Islamic doctrine.
Most of the religions of the world connected woman
with mother earth, fertility, and all the other
progenetic and nurturing associations, and this was
borne out in the cultures of the people.  According to
Campbell, the only godlike female figure in the Bible
is the Virgin Mary, and she appears, identified as virgin,
only in the Gospel according to Luke.  As Luke was
a Greek, Campbell suggested that Mary was a carryover
from the paganism of the ancient Greek pantheon.
Although this might help explain the Judeo-Christian-Muslim
tendencies to subjugate women,
treating them essentially as chattel, it does not account
for a similar treatment accorded them in other cultures,
notably that of Japan.  It is not entirely clear
whether Campbell was commenting on Hinduism,
Buddhism, etc. as they once existed, conceptually, for
it is unlikely that he could have ignored the treatment
of women in the modern reflexes of the cultures adhering
to those religous precepts.

            Campbell held that the ancient mythologies and
religions are allegorical and that there was no real
distinction between gods and goddesses, who were
given sexual identity when in human form only to
make them more meaningful.  With all respect, that
seems a highly debatable issue and one far too complex
for this discussion, though we can certainly trace a
diminution in the role of female divinities (or divinity)
when we come to examine Judaism and its congeners
and progeny.  Other debatable aspects are the questions
of whether the debasement of women is a reflection of
the theology or the ritual, whether the scripture of any
religion should be understood allegorically or literally,
and so forth.  If there is something wrong, it behooves
us to get at the roots of the problem, not to flail about
wildly, for only after the source of a disease has been
identified can one properly investigate its cure.

            History according to Rosalind Miles blasts away
at the symptoms in a misconceived notion that alleviating
them will effect a cure of the disease.  In this
jeremiad, males are viewed as the enemy, and are so
characterized throughout the book, which concludes
with exhortations to engage the foe and a strident call
to arms (though not men's).

            Laurence Urdang
         
         
            Archaeology & Language

            [A VERBATIM Book Club Selection.]

            Just when you thought it was safe to assume that
we now know all we are ever likely to know about the
past, someone digs another hole and unearths (literally
or figuratively) some ancient artifact: one day it is a
fragile scroll, found in a cave near the Dead Sea, that
turns out to be pre-Biblical; the next day it is an entire
terracotta army of Chinese soldiers: the next it is a
skull, excavated from the Olduvai Gorge, that compels
anthropologists (once again) to revise their guesses
about the earliest stages of Homo sapiens sapiens vs
hominids.  Most of the relies from the past are gone
forever, destroyed by the plows of countless generations
of farmers, reduced to rubble by erosion, by conquerors,
by prehistoric (and modern) urban developers, by
fire and flood, and just by time.  Many, we may hope,
have not yet been found.  The interest in man's forebears
did not become fashionable upon the publication,
a few years ago, of Roots : on a far larger scale,
we have been trying to discover all we can about the
origins not of men but of man.  Strange to say, however,
that interest does not seem to be more than a few
hundred years old: if the ancient Greeks and Romans,
the Indians, the Chinese and other peoples were curious
about their own prehistory, I have not heard of it.
Perhaps the fascination with man's past grew out of
the obsession with ruins evinced by Romanticism; certainly,
modern archaeology seems to have followed
close behind, for the excavation of the supposed site of
Troy took place only about 100 years ago.  Perhaps it is
just as well, for only by the means available to modern
science are we now able to preserve some of the artifacts
that we find and, through radiocarbon dating,
determine their approximate age.

            Archaeology is a popular pursuit, and its manifest
results not only receive considerable publicity but can
be seen in museums.  Not so paleolinguistics, or the
reconstruction of ancient languages.  Even the remnants
we have from early languages that had a writing
system are relatively sparse: Classical Latin and
Greek, Hebrew, and a few other languages are better
documented than others; but for most all we have to go
on are a handful of tablets here, a few inscriptions
there, barely enough in many cases to allow us to
identify the language, let alone draw any conclusions
regarding its structure or meaning.  Perhaps one day
we shall find an Etruscan library, buried deep in the
Italian countryside; but for the present, we have to
make do with what we have, which is precious little.
About languages that had no writing system, we know
nothing at all.  But some very clever comparative linguists,
beginning in Germany in the 19th century, theorized
about how the nature of the ancestors of the
more modern tongues.  In some instances, ancient languages
have been decoded, some from multilingual
inscriptions.  The work of Jean Francois Champollion
(1790-1832) in deciphering hieroglyphics from the Rosetta
Stone was an astonishing accomplishment, for it
enabled us to read the myriad writings of the ancient
Egyptians on papyrus and in wall inscriptions and
revealed an enormous amount of the knowledge we
have today about their civilization, which lasted for
about 2600 years.  Another significant break-through
was that of Michael Ventris (1922-1956), who deciphered
the Linear B script found on Crete and identified
it as an early form of Greek.  From the standpoint
of language, Ventris's work was more important, particularly
because it filled in a gap in our knowledge of
the early states of Indo-European languages.

            Many years ago, a linguistic scholar counted all of
the languages then spoken of which he had evidence.
The total was approximately 2800, but that is probably
only a vague estimate: he undoubtedly missed
some; some have sprung up since his time (modern
Hebrew, for instance); and some have vanished.  The
exact count is unimportant and, at best, spurious, for
it is extremely difficult to establish uniform criteria for
what distinguishes dialect from language.  Then, too,
one must examine the techniques used to group the
many languages of the world.

            Linguists examining Classical Greek, Latin, German,
English, Slavic, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish,
Dutch, Lithuanian, Iranian, Hindi, and the other languages
of India and Europe found that there were
correspondences among many of the common words.
Some, like French, Spanish, Italian, and Portuguese,
had more in common with one another than they did
with, say, German, English, Swedish, Danish, and
Dutch, which, in turn, bore only a remote resemblance
to Russian and Polish, on the one hand, and the
two extant varieties of, say, Gaelic, on the other.  One
rapidly runs out of hands and must resort to fingers
and toes, for after years of laboriously categorizing
these languages, the number of different main
branches (called families and subfamilies) came to
about ten.  Ingeniously, certain differences between
families were explained by various phonetic shifts that
(inexplicably) took place in one language group but
not in another.  Although certain other languages were
geographically nearby, it was impossible to establish
any resemblances between them, hence Basque, for
example, is not classified as being in the same family
with other European languages, nor are Hungarian
and Finnish, both of which belong to their own group.
At the conclusion of this vast exercise, done without
the aid of computers, there emerged a pattern of familial
relationships that linked together languages spoken,
in earlier times, from Britain as far east as Chinese
Turkestan and from India as far north as
Lappland.  Charts showing the chief languages and
their derivations can be found in many dictionariesinside
the front cover of The Random House Unabridged ,
for example.  Because linguists are constantly
learning more and more about the relationships
among languages, it is best to avoid using an older
chart; for the same reason, it would be wise not to
stake too much on the accuracy of even a current
chart.

            The languages discussed here are what are usually
called the Indo-European family; similar family trees
could be drawn for the Semitic languages, Sino-Tibetan,
Japanese, Bantu, Malayo-Polynesian, and so on.
Each is a distinct phylum; although there may be
word-borrowing among them, lexicon is considered
less important in the classification of languages than
structure and grammar.  It is important, too, to note
that writing systems are irrelevant: for instance, Polish
is written (today) using the Roman alphabet, but Russian,
a related Slavic language, uses the Cyrillic; Yiddish,
a Germanic language, is written in Hebrew characters;
Latin, Greek, and Sanskrit, which resemble
one another rather closely in some respects, all use
different alphabets; and early examples, utterly unrecognizable
to untrained readers of modern languages,
were written in cuneiform, quite suitable for writing
on soft clay tablets with a pointed stylus, and hieroglyphics.

            
It would be nice to think that while linguists were
working so hard to organize languages, they were
working alongside the archaeologists who were providing
the raw materials.  But only rarely did they collaborate
and, with few exceptions, their work was not
correlated in a systematic way.  Schliemann, who discovered
the site of Troy, used the evidence in Homer's
Iliad to determine his digging site, where any ruins
had long since disappeared from view.  In many other
places, the ancient sites lay buriedand still
dobeneath modern cities: modern property owners
quite understandably take a dim view of tearing down
their buildings on the off chance that the remnants of
an ancient town will be found several yards below.
today, before a new building is erected in London, an
archaeological team examines the cleared site for its
archaeological significance.  But there, as everywhere
else, nothing can interfere with progress and, regardless
of the finds and their importance, the archaeologist
must eventually yield to the bulldozer.  Notwithstanding,
even the brief glimpses afforded by such
investigations can provide some insight into civilizations
that existed hundreds or, in some cases, thousands
of years earlier.

            Based on the sparse evidence available, linguists
theorized about the earlier languages that had given
rise to those attested.  In other words, based on what
they knew about a group of languages which were
documented, they tried to imagine the language that
they sprang from.  In most cases, they dealt with words
and functional elements, creating what are called reconstructions
in hypothetical family prototypes called,
variously, Proto-Latin, Proto-Greek, Proto-Germanic,
Proto-Indo-Iranian, and so forth, the ultimate goal
being to posit a single language called Proto-Indo-European.
That is not entirely true, for linguists know
too much about language to suggest that there ever
was, literally, a single language from which all Indo-European
languages descended.  Nonetheless, it is convenient
to think about the existence of a group of
proto-dialects which can be referred to as Proto-Indo-European.

            
It seems only natural that once an original language,
or Ursprache , was posited, the next step was to
speculate on its source, or Urheimat .  That is what
Renfrew has tried to do.  Essentially, he proposes that
the parent of all Indo-European languages was itself
born in central Anatolia, whence it spread eastward,
westward, and northward, being modified by the influences
of the languages with which it came into contact,
till it ultimately emerged in its recognizable,
modern manifestations which we categorize into Germanic,
Hellenic, Italic, Indo-Iranian, Anatolian, Armenian,
Celtic, Tocharian, Albanian, and BaltoSlavic.

            I have no quarrel with Renfrew's theorynotwithstanding
the generally received wisdom that has
placed the homeland north of the Black Sea region
and the Volga steppes.  It is difficult for the nonspecialist
reader (like me) to assess the validity of his arguments,
which are based on his contention that the
language (and its congeners) were carried along by the
spread of nomad pastoralism.  Using the evidence available,
Renfrew contends that the original Indo-European
language, closely related to Hittite, separated
after 6500 BC, with the IE languages of western Europe
developing from western Anatolia and those of
Iran, India, and Pakistan from the eastern division.
The choice between the prevailing theory and Renfrew's
depends on whether one accepts a wave theory,
first promulgated more than a hundred years ago
by Johnanes Schmidt, a German linguist, or one of
indigenous development.  Pottery finds can be interpreted
to support either the imposition of an elite culture
from Turkmenia or a late development of the
Indus civilization.  Renfrew accepts the wave theory,
and in the last two thirds of Archaeology & Language
he sets forth his arguments in its favor.  Unfortunately,
the presentation of his linguistic argument, where the
author is clearly treading on more speculative ground
than in those parts dealing with outright archaeology,
where he is on more familiar territory, is disorganized
and repetitious.  It is difficult to place all the blame on
Renfrew, for his editor should have noticed the lack of
coherence.  The result is an argument that is persuasive
but scarely convincing.

            Nevertheless, good books on archaeology assimilable
by laymen are not easy to find, and if the reader
can tolerate its shortcomings and is not overly concerned
about the precise birthplace of Indo-European,
Archaelogy & Language provides an interesting march
through the millennia of prehistory in seven-league
boots.

            Laurence Urdang
         
         
            Webster's Electronic Thesaurus
            This software consists of two disks, one labeled
Installation and Program, the other Synonym Linguibase,
and a manual.  The manual sets forth everything
with clarity, and the program is simple to install, requiring
only a few minutes.  Only one thing made me a
little suspicious when cranking up the system: in the
descriptive text that appears on the screen, the word
labeled is spelt labelleddecidedly un-American.
However, I went ahead, and, since I was typing the
text you are reading, returned to the beginning of the
paragraph to see how some of these words would fare.
I looked up the word preceding and was, after a brief
moment, asked to type in the word, which I did.  The
screen bloomed forth with the following:

            Query: preceding

            1)  adj being before especially in time or arrangement

            There were also some other parts of speech: one
definition for the preposition and three for the verb
(participial) senses.  I called up the synonyms for the
adj and the following appeared:

            Synonyms:


antecedent, anterior, foregoing, former, past, precedent,
previous, prior
            

            The way the program works is this: one uses the cursor
to highlight a particular word for which synonyms are
desired.  It is similar, in principle, to finding a synonym
in a synonym dictionary and then looking up its synonyms
to find them.  I am not sure why, but I expected
the program to network in the same way.  However,
when I highlighted antecedent , what appeared on the
screen was the same list of synonyms but with antecedent
missing, and preceding had reappeared.  If all this
is too complicated to follow, let me summarize: you
look up word X and get synonyms A, B, C, D, E, F,
and G.  You look up the synonyms for word A, and you
get synonyms X, B, C, D, E, F, and G.  Even the
definition provided for the sub-listings is identical in
wording to that of the word originally sought.

            This is very economical of space and involves a
clever computer ploy, but it does not provide a particularly
useful synonym dictionary, for, as we all know,
synonymy in language does not yield to the commutative
law of mathematics; in language, Things equal to
the same thing are not (necessarily) equal to each
other.  Perhaps the Proximity people thought that they
had got round that little problem by giving the same
definition for each of the items in the list; but we know
that only very rarely are two synonyms bi-unique
(which is another way of saying that if A = B, B does
not necessarily always equal A), an ineluctable fact of
language.

            If a relatively limited access to a synonym dictionary
is likely to be of use, then this package may be of
service.  It works with a hard disk or with a set of
floppies and can be used with 29 popular word-processing
programs.  (That was the number listed when I
received my copy; it might have increased.)  It also has
a few neat features, like suggesting a few alternatives if
you happen to think that preceding is spelt preceeding
(as many people do).  It has a useful Help feature
that can be called upon at any stage.  Also, if you
enter jump , you get the synonyms for that; but if you
enter jumped , you get the (same) synonyms but inflectedincluding
the variants leapt, leaped for leap .
All in all, for a relatively primitive system, it is not too
bad; but you would have to be in love with your computer
to use it in preference to a far more complete
books of synonyms available (especially The Synonym
Finder , Rodale in the U.S. and Canada, Longman
elsewhere, which offers more than 800,000 synonyms,
more than three times the number listed in any other
synonym book).

            The blurb on this book/disk package reads, Supplies
you with 470,000 true synonyms for 40,000 entries.
My guess is that such a quantity might be
reached if one counted all the permutations and combinations;
in reality, though, there are probably far
fewer actual words.  Readers can judge for themselves
the validity of this numerical legerdemain.

            Laurence Urdang
         
         
            Family Words
            In 1962, American Speech published Family
Words in English, by Allen Walker Read, which was
reprinted in VERBATIM Vol. I, No. 4, (1975).  The article
is a classic, probably the first on the subject to appear
in a scholarly journal, though there are other informal
references to family language, some of which are documented
by Dickson in his Bibliography.

            Family words and expressions crop up everywhere.
Some are quite unique and their reporters cannot
imagine their origin; others, like Penn Station ,
what one family terms a child's misinterpretation of a
famous line or phrase, are clear: the generic term
comes from the Lord's PrayerAnd lead us not into
Penn Station.  Obviously, that works only for kids familiar
with New York City.  Other Penn Stations :


Our Father, which art in heaven, Harold be Thy
name.

Land where the Pilgrims pried.

Bells on cocktails ring.

I pledge my allowance to the flag.

Gladly the cross-eyed bear
Onward Christian Soldiers,
Marching as to War,
With the cross-eyed Jesus,
Leaning on the phone.

...One nation, invisible...

...One nation, in a vegetable...
            

            Many people know F.H.B. for `family hold back,' an
exhortation ensuring ample provender for guests.

            This is not to suggest that Dickson's book is a
catalogue of bloopers, or what Amsel Greene (and
Jack Smith) like to call pullet surprises .  There are
many interesting entries in Family Words which, as far
as I know, is the first documentation of the genre.
There are occasional hidden entries, as the list of diseasesamong
them the dread mohogus under the
entry for Fowlenzia .  (In the VERBATIM family, some
suffer from Fowler's pip , an affliction affecting language
fanatics who base a slavish purism on a literal
interpretation of Modern English Usage .)

            
               Family Words is useful and fun.  Inevitably, some
of the entries are more imaginative than others; Dickson
will have his hands full if everyone responds giving
private words.  Please sent yours to the author, c/o Addison-Wesley,
Reading, MA 01867, not to VERBATIM.

            Laurence Urdang
         
         

            A Midwesterner, Will Hays, Jr., who is proud of
his knowledge of post-Civil-War history, tells me the
following origin of shot , as in shotglass , absent from
Gunning for the English Language:

            Although we associate trench warfare with World
War I, trenches were characteristic also of the Civil
War.  A scaffold was built so that a rifleman
who fired a single-shot, muzzle-loading shoulder
weaponcould step up and shoot over the top of the
trench.  The soldier in charge would command, after
each firing, that the rank on the scaffold step down
and be replaced by the rank that had just reloaded,
thus alternating ranks and sustaining the rifle fire.

            That war, like others, produced disgruntled veterans
and those more adventurous or more restless after
military service.  They moved westward to start a new
life.  The population increased markedly, with corresponding
demands for goods and services, among them
the need for saloons.  Most new saloons were small and
the bars short, accommodating with difficulty the
many bunched up, in ranks, if you will, calling for
whiskey.  Many of the thirsty crowd were veterans, as
were many of the bartenders.  Thus, Step down (or
back) and give me a shot was readily understood.  I've
not been able to corroborate this explanation, but I'll
never forget it.




         
         

            Mr. Joseph Hymes' Do MistakeLearn Better
[XV,1] brought to mind the time a Japanese acquaintance
told me of a friend of hers who decided to tackle
the original English version of three books she had
enjoyed while in Japan.  She boldly marched into a
bookstore and asked the salesclerk for a copy each of
Hemingway's The Sun Come Up Again and Throw
Away the Gun and Steinbeck's The Angry Grape .  Is
there a term for the errors that creep in while translating
a passage back into the original tongue?




         
         

            Mr. Davidson's observations on the Scottishness of
Chambers 20th Century Dictionary [XV,1] bear out
my own formed over sixteen years of using one.  An odd
sidelight on this came a few days after reading the
article.  Definitions under pet end with Petting Party
(coll.) a gathering for the purpose of caressing as an
organised sport.  (Origin unknown; not from Gaelic) I
think it hardly fanciful to discern a note of Calvinist
disapproval in this curt disclaimer.




         
         

            Although I greatly enjoyed Richard Lederer's article,
I fear that one of his paragraphs is a load of brass
monkey balls.

            The monkey on board ship was a lad employed to
fetch suppliespowder and so forthto the guns.  The
word might also have been used for a receptacle near
the guns where powder and balls were kept.  However,
this receptacle would have taken the form of a wooden
box or something similar.  The idea of a metal stand
carrying a pyramid of cannon balls so delicately balanced
as to be affected by the tiny differential expansion
of brass and iron does not bear thinking about in a
heavy sea.

            So what is the explanation of the phrase cold
enough to freeze the balls off a brass monkey ?  Well,
the obvious one, I believe.  Anybody who asks Why a
brass monkey? is probably not aware that brass monkeys
were very common household ornaments in England
in the 19th and early 20th centuries.  Originally,
they were probably imported from India, but were
later mass-produced in places such as Birmingham to
grace Victorian and Edwardian mantelshelves.  They
can still be found today in so-called gift shops.  Usually,
they come in sets of three, one with its hands over
its eyes, one over its ears, and one over its mouth: they
were said to represent See no evil, Hear no evil, Speak
no evil.  There were various whimsical variants.




         
         

            I am sure I am not the first to point out Joseph
Hynes's, Do MistakeLearn Better, [XV,1] mistakes
in Japanizing English words, e.g., sei fu not safe-o,
nain not nine-o.  The possibilities for representing
English with a language of only forty-seven syllables
are not that numerous, and the rules are very consistent.
The main problems are representing consonant
clusters and word-final consonants.  These difficulties
produce such monstrosities as sutoraike for English
`strike'one syllable in English, five in Japanese.

            Every Japan veteran has his list of favorite mistakes.
Mine are the ones that are possible, but wrong,
English.  Adding the Japanese final vowels produces
Gone with the Windo .  Hypercorrection, where Japanese
speakers learn that many final vowels do not exist
in the American version of the tongue and so remove
them, sometimes incorrectly, gives us the California
cities of San Francisk and Sacrament .  This process
resulted in the sign reading Pizz and Coffee .

            My absolute favorite of these semantic mistakes,
however, does not come from the problem of sound.
Japanese has a verb inflection which expresses causation
or permissionin English, to make someone or
to let someone do something.  One day during a university
English class, a very discomfited student, after
frantic and obtrusive dictionary work, handed a colleague
of mine a scrap of paper.  On it was written this
sentence: Please make me go to the bathroom.




         
         
            You Could Look It Up
            As everyone in the world must know by now, William
Safire writes a column in The New York Times
Magazine called On Language.  Considering the circulation
of The New York Times on Sundays, his column
is probably the most widely read commentary on
contemporary English in the world; that places more
than one uncommon burden on a writer: he must do
his utmost to be accurate; he must try to select subjects
likely to be of interest to his readers; and he must
write well.

            Those familiar with Safire's editorial style, reflected
in his political columns on the editorial pages
of The N. Y. Times , may agree with me in the contention
that when he writes about language he seems to
be writing on his day off: I cannot put my finger on
why, but On Language always strikes me as an excruciating
effort to be cute.  In part, that is attributable
to the designation of his correspondents, who
keep him informed on language that is not within
earshot, as the Lexicographic Irregulars, an amusing
reference the first time or two it was used but now
beginning to cloy.  More often than it might prove of
interest to me, personally, Safire deals with insiders'
language in Washington (where he is based) or with
trivialities uttered by some politico.

            As Andrew Norman wrote, in a letter published in
this book on page 113, You flit freely back and forth
between prescriptivism and descriptivism.  But are not
many of us guilty of that?  We are descriptive of the
usages we accept and prescriptiveperhaps proscriptive
would be more descriptiveof those we do not
like.  At least Safire expresses an opinion; whether the
reader agrees with him is another matter, as are the
questions of his accuracy, which arise fairly often, and
that of the suitability of his style, which, as far as I
know, has not been broached before.  It ill behooves
me, excoriated recently as enamored of the cheap
larf, to criticize Safire's arch puns, which permeateenliven
is probably the word his editor would
usehis articles, but I find some kinds of humor unsuitable
for reading, however they might evoke a
chuckle when uttered viva voce .  A handful of examples,
from the book at hand:


Therefore, I stand uncorrected. [p. 112]

...Get your hand off my knee.  (That's a mnemonic,
pronounced knee-MONIC.)

Ize Right?  [title, p. 114]

Juggernaughty but Nice [title, p. 115]

...slanguist...[p. 116]

Lex Appeal [title, p. 121]

Logue-Rolling [title, p. 123]

[on -logue vs. -log:] Some people prefer their
logues sawed off...[p. 123]

But the Library of Congress wants to be non-U [in
its spelling of -logue words].  [ibid.]
            

            Writing containing such labored figures makes for
hard reading.  I am interested in what Safire has to say
about language but find myself stymied: I get the feeling
that he has deliberately created a minefield of
interruptions in thought through which I must pick
my way to the end.  Notwithstanding the valuable role
he plays in inspiring nonlinguists to think about language
and in informing them about myriad facets of
the subject, I find it hard slogging (or, as he would
probably write, sloguing).

            
               You Could Look It Up is the umpteenth collection
of Safire's columns and, like the previous collections,
contains a selection of letters from readers.  It is those
that are so sorely missed in his column.  True, there is
an occasional mention in his column of a point raised
by a correspondent, and the Letters section of the
Magazine prints a comment from time to time, but an
important feature of the books is their inclusion of far
more writer-reader interaction than one might suspect
from reading the column alone.  For one thing, the
letter-writers call attention to errors or misinterpretations
and are largely critical.  Safire cannot be accused
of being copy-proud (except, evidently, of awful puns,
as in  Ms. is deliberately msterious , but at least it is
not deliberately msleading  and other mscegenations).

            There is no gainsaying that Safire is one of the
most influential writers on contemporary English, and
it is essential that his books be in the libraries of all
who are interested in the subject, regardless of their
alignment with his opinions.  For one thing, he documents
many neologisms, an activity that endears him
to many working lexicographers.  From the sometimes
cavalier manner in which he treats his subject, one
wonders if Safire feels the burden of the responsibility
he has toward his readers.

            The publisher sent unrevised bound proofs from
which this review was prepared; unfortunately, there
was no proof of an index, but the publisher has assured
me that there will be one in the published book, a
rather essential ingredient of a work with this title.

            Laurence Urdang
         
         
            Webster's New World Guide to Current American
Usage

            Here is a commonsense style book, useful to those
who have the education and common sense to be in
doubt about questions of English usage.  It has some
problems, if you want to be sticky about things: on p.
xv we read:


...Einstein's Special Theory of Relativity does
not say that E = MC and in leap year MC.
            

            Indeed it does not.  But it does say E = mc ; the version
with the capital M and C is, essentially, meaningless
to those familiar with the conventional symbolism used
in physics.

            While I acknowledge that it is not easy to know
how to sort out the many topics to be covered in a
usage book, most reasonable writers have taken a stab
at writing an entry under a heading that seems a likely
place to look, then have provided a detailed index.  Not
Bernice Randall.  True, one can find different from ,
etc., in an entry so headed, but for absolute constructions
one is referred to an entry called Covered with
onions, relish, and ketchup, I ate a hotdog at the ball-park.
If the user wants to find out about misplaced
adjectives and adverbs , reference is made to the entry
Electric shaver for women with delicate floral design
on the handle.  A search for only would be futile.

            Perhaps the subject and treatment of usage need
some lightening up, but I am hard put to agree that
they are quite as frivolous and light-headed as this
book would have us believe.  Fun is fun, but those who
might rely on such a book are quite serious about the
information they are seeking, and it is unfair to play
fast and loose with their sincerity.  A sense of humor
about a subject is born of a feeling of security about it,
but security is the one characteristic often lacking
among those who would use Current American Usage .

            There is no doubt that Randall enjoys her work.
But of what use is a long entry on spoonerisms?  And of
what use are the interminable examples, for instance,
of the misuse of like for as , which draw out the entry
to three pages?  More than four pages are devoted to
clichs (under the guise of Lo and behold, it's man's
best friend., which, being an exclamation, really
ought to end in an exclamation point).  The article on
British/American English (There's no home like Eaton
Place.) is a good one, but, at six pages, its utility is
questionable.  In the matter of pronunciations of
BrEng names, it is an old-fashioned fantasy of Americans
that Brits go round saying POM-frit for Pontefract :
most Brits that I have heard give the name a
spelling pronunciation these days; and so with many of
the old shibboleths.  Of what relevance (to usage, notwithstanding
the fact that the topic is interesting) is an
entry on eponyms (John Bull and John Hancock are
not just any johns.)?  That is not, strictly speaking, a
subject pertinent to the title of the book.

            All of which is to say that the book is an interesting
work on the language and contains accurate,
though longwinded information about what it covers,
interesting and useful facts about American English.
Its only real faults are its title, which belies the content,
the cutesy headings, and the lack of a truly detailed
index: self-indexing does not provide coverage of
sufficient detail.  As a reference work on usage, it is far
from complete: The Simon and Schuster Publicity Department
could have used an entry on foreword/
forward (spelt foreward in the release accompanying
the review copy).

            A longish section, Some Troublesome Idiomatic
Prepositions, and a Glossary of Grammatical and
Linguistic Terms Used in This Book, followed by a list
of References, sources associated with specific entries,
round out the work.

            Laurence Urdang
         
         
            Language Notes from Abroad


            Once more unto the breach for the warriors of
1'Acadmie Franaise in their uphill battle to preserve
the purity of their native tongue.  Examples of franglais
which they find particularly monstrous are, I
hear, to be condemned to a newly created Muse des
horreurs.  The first is sponsor, sponsoriser, sponsorisation.
The academy also calls upon all French to send
in further examples of linguistic pollution, observing
ruefully that this is one museum which will be open 12
months a year.  But the savants have passed barman,
blazer, bobsleigh , and boycott as fit for inclusion in
their new dictionary.  [From The Times , 15 January
1988]

         
         
            Letter to the Editor of The Times



            Penny Perrick regrets (January 11) that There is
no word in English to describe that particular, special
sort of pride that one feels in the achievements of one's
children.  But the verb kvell , which exactly expresses
that emotion, is already (like other Yiddish loanwords,
such as chutzpah, meshugga and nosh ) to be found in
the Supplement to the Oxford-English Dictionary .

         
         
            If you think that the practice in some Muslim countries
of amputating the hand of a thief is harsh, beware
of participating in horse shows in England,
where there is no capital punishment but the issue
arises every few years:


A carriage and team of Cleveland Bay horses,
driven by Mr Fred Pendlebury...[were] approaching
the water obstacle during the cross-country
section of the Harrods International Grand Prix
when the leading pair became confused, turned
back and became entangled with the second pair.
Mr Pendlebury, of Smithills, near Bolton, Greater
Manchester, was eliminated.
            

            [From The Times , 16 May 1988]
         
         
            Loose Cannons & Red Herrings

            Readers should be familiar with Robert Claiborne's
earlier books, especially Our Marvelous Native
Tongue: The Life and Times of the English Language .
One might say that subtitling the present book A
Book of Lost Metaphors is an example of a loose
canon [sic]  unless metaphor is taken in its broadest
sensebut one is unlikely to find red herrings here: the
etymologies of a few hundred words and phrases are
given, many not readily findable in standard works of
reference.  The rationale behind referring to them as
lost arises from the author's observation of an unfortunate
state of affairs: because of an increasingly widespread
lack of familiarity with the basic, structural
elements of our cultureGreek and Roman mythology,
the Bible, literature, and ordinary historical
factpeople today are unable to discern the origins of
terms like aphrodisiac, Achilles [sic] heel or tendon,
meet one's Waterloo, sow dragon's teeth , and hand-writing
on the wall , to name a few.  There are many, of
course, but unaccountably, they are not the focus of
this book.

            Claiborne investigates and reports on expressions
like sow one's wild oats , about which he tells us little
or nothing: the modern Latinate designation Avena
fatua came too many centuries after the original expression
to have any relevance to it, so why bring up
the information that fatua is Latin for `foolish': it was
also Latin for `wild,' which might be more to the
point.  In any event, it is hard to discern, from the arch
style affected in an attempt to make dull facts interesting,
just what is the origin of sow one's wild oats .  In
many entries, Claiborne labors the obvious, offering
little or nothing we do not already know, could easily
imagine, or for which the author offers no explanation.
Among examples of the first are spit and polish,
on the spot, on the square, stick one's neck out , etc.
Examples of the last include spill the beans, square the
circle, stalemate , etc.  Between these is an occasional
flash of useful wisdom, much of it pretty well covered
by other books of this type (which seem to be proliferating).

            What is missing, for example, at square the circle ,
is the information that because the area of a circle is
mathematically calculated using pi , which is irrational,
there is no mathematical way of calculating the
dimensions of a square with the same area as that of a
given circle.  But that does not mean that such a square
cannot exist.  As for stalemate , which is related to
checkmate , would it not have been important to indicate
that the - mate part has nothing to do with English,
having been borrowed from checkmate which is a
loanword from Persian (and has nothing to do with
check , either).

            Often, an entry offers nothing in the way of etymology
and merely explains the meaning.  Does any
reader need an entry like this one?

            
               straddle .  When you straddle a horse, you've got
one leg on either side of the animal.  When a
politican straddles an issue, he's in much the same
position.

            Some speculative suggestions, as the derivation (or
reinforcement) from Seidlitz powders for take a powder
are sheer nonsense.  Not all entries contain misleading,
dull, or incorrect information, but those that do
not are marked by a lack of originality.

            Laurence Urdang
         
         
            Word Maps

            Dialect geography, a branch of dialectology, describes
certain features of the dialects of a language
and their distribution.  The field is about 100 years old.
Most prominent among its earliest practitioners in
England was Joseph Wright, who prepared the six-volume
English Dialect Dictionary , which was published
between 1898 and 1905; the best-known contemporary
British specialist is Harold Orton.  In America,
work proceeded space during the 1930s, largely under
the direction of Raven McDavid, Hans Kurath, and,
later, Harold Allen; more recently, Lee Pedersen and
others have investigated American English dialects.
Between 1948 and 1961, fieldworkers based at the University
of Leeds conducted the Survey of English Dialects,
which studied 313 localities in England (which,
as everyone ought to know, does not include Wales or
Scotland).  The present book is extracted from the two
major works that resulted from the Survey, The Linguistic
Atlas of England (1978) and A Word Geography
of England (1974), both under the direction of Harold
Orton, aided by Sanderson and Widdowson in the latter
effort.

            People generally seem to find dialect study interesting.
One letter writer to The Times [21 June 1988]
reported:


Our close neighbour... in Bere Regis, who was
born in the village and who speaks with a delicious
Dorset burr, always uses I instead of me....

Well, it makes company for I and company for
she.  Another of his happy expressions is inner-wards,
meaning `since,' as in...I chucked him
out the door and he's not been back innerwards.
            

            Another reported [same date]:


Let's get it right.  The Bristol for me is not I,
but oi.  When I was teaching there, the explanation
invariably given by boys brought to me for
scrapping in the playground was: Ee it oi, so oi
it ee.
            

            The 100 maps selected for representation from the
Survey yield information on several hundred words,
some of which are clear variants, others quite different
lexical entities.  For instance, Map 34 shows the areas,
marked off by boundary lines, where the variants
chimley chimbley, chimmock, chimdey, chimbey , and
chimney occur.  Map 33 shows the distribution of child
(most of southern England) and of bairn (north of a
slightly wavy line between Boston, on the Wash to the
east, and Lancaster, on the west coast).

            The authors have provided a brief introduction
which is easy to follow, a list of suggested readings,
and the names and addresses of the several institutions
and societies in Britain where readers may indulge a
more intensive interest in dialect study.  The maps are
clear, each occupying a full page, and the word information
is well set forth on them.  Where necessary,
brief but not cryptic explanations are provided of any
information that might seem to be out of the ordinary.
I have only one nit to pick with the authors.  In their
description of isoglosses , they write:


These are drawn to run midway between/
localities which were shown by the Survey of
English Dialects to use the different words or
pronunciations which are the subject of the map.
            

            Although it is true that isoglosses, in effect, set off the
various areas where a particular usage was recorded,
more accurately an isogloss is drawn to connect sites
either where speakers employ both usages or where
speakers using one or the other live in very close proximity.
Hence, the term isogloss , from iso - `same' + gloss
`word,' to describe the line on a map where the terms
are of equal distribution.  Isoglosses are to dialect maps
what isobars and isotherms are to weather maps, what
isobaths are to geophysical maps of the oceans, etc.
The authors are not alone in getting this wrong: it is
incorrect in some dictionaries.

            In those countries where dialect study is undertaken,
dialectologists observe that there are today
many factors militating against the strict maintenance
of older dialect boundaries: the standardization of terminology
as adopted by national periodicals, news
services, radio, and television; the establishment of
prestige dialects and, through the media, their
promulgation; and the huge population shifts that
have taken place, particularly in the U.S. since WWII.
Such shifts have been somewhat slower in England,
but seem now to be speeding up.  There are many
other, lesser factors at work, but taken together, all
tend toward standardization, especially as the older
speakers die off.  In some respects, it may not be long
before certain aspects of dialect geography will be
largely historical.  The importance of dialect is emphasized
regularly in the press, where we read about people
being killed, as in parts of India, because they use
the wrong shibboleths.

            This book is a good introduction to the subject (in
England); those familiar with dialectology in
America, and those interested in the study in England
or, indeed, generally would be well advised to add
Word Maps to their libraries.

            Laurence Urdang
         
         
            American Literary Almanac

            This is an interesting, useful reference book containing
information about the better-known writers of
America.  It is divided into eighteen chapters varying
in length, each dealing with a different aspect of the
authors and their works, among them,


Writers Related to Writers
Schooldays (which colleges and universities
spawned which writers)
American Literary Pseudonyms
American Literary Title Sources
Literary Cons: Hoaxes, Frauds, and Plagiarism
in American Literature
The Profession of Authorship:

Authors/Publishers/ Editors/Agents
Thrown to the Wolves: Reviews and Reviewers
            

            These are supplemented by an extensive Bibliography
and a detailed Index.

            As can be seen from the chapter headings, some of
the material is trivial, but nonetheless interesting for
that.  It is not at once apparent why the book is styled
an almanac, but that is unimportant: there is no
other book I know of that contains as much diverse
information about American writers as this one.  Its
readability and organization make it suitable for
browsingeven for reading straight throughso in
that respect, at least, it does not resemble books in the
Oxford Companion series.  It contains many photographs
of writers, some quite early; these enliven the
appearance of the book but accomplish little else, unless
one is interested in what Samuel Clemens looked
like at the age of 15 (as a printer's devil) or in the
appearance of Hart Crane standing in the middle of a
railroad track in Cleveland in 1916.

            It is difficult to make any sensible connection between
the lives of authors and their creations.  A handful
might have led colorful existences, some are objects
of interest because they died early, committed suicide,
were related to (other) famous people, and so forth;
but such information seldom reveals as much about
their output as do the creations themselves, and in
certain cases one is probably better off not knowing
quite so much.

            This book appears to have been diligently researched
and has much to recommend it as an adjunct
to most libraries, public and private, large and small,
general and specialized.

            Laurence Urdang
         
         
            
Faculty protest against apartheid at Cornell.  [TV
news tease, WHEC, Rochester, .  Submitted
by .]
         
         
            
[the tenor] brings the opera to its climax in his final
suicide.  [From a review of Handel's Tamerlano in the  issue of Stereo Review.  Submitted by 
.]
         
         

            I would like to make a couple of comments on
articles in the Autumn 1988 issue [XV,2].  Re the article
on Cuthbert, Dickens uses intercourse to mean `communication
between people' in A Christmas Carol
when Scrooge says I will not be the man I must have
been but for this intercourse to the third Spirit.

            I would think that the words grand and stretch
would be known to more people than two of the words
the author gives as being familiar ( chippy and hootch ).

            Incidentally, I seem to recall reading somewhere
that skins as slang for `dollars' dates from frontier days
when trappers used animal skins as currency, and is
therefore much older than early 20th-century Harlem.



         
         
            
...the party consisted of Beckett, Dame Peggy Ashcroft,
Harold Pinter, and the late Alan Webb.  [from The Times
Diary , , ]
         
      
   

  
  
    
      December 1998
      Your contribution to Goodwill will mean more than you may know.
      To help you see how much your contribution means, I'm sharing with you
      The words of people who have lived Goodwill's mission. We want you to
      Know why your support of Goodwill is so important.
      Your gift to Goodwill is important because people with physical and
      Mental disabilities sometimes need an extra hand to know the pride that
      comes with work.
      "I was sad when I couldn't go to the snack bar to buy a soda. Now I
      can buy a soda and spend money. I like working and making money. I have a
      savings account. I can write my name on the deposit slip. If I wasn't
      working here ...I would be sad ..." -- Maureen
      Because turning welfare recipients into tax payers just makes
      sense.
      "When I first came to Goodwill I was a single parent with little or no
      self-esteem. I was on welfare and without my diploma. Coming to Goodwill
      was the first step toward my becoming totally independent. I am now
      ...totally off of welfare. I really like my job." -- Sherry
      Because people want to work.
      "I'd never finished high school. I had no experience or skills ... The
      only thing I did know for sure was here's a chance to change things for
      me and my children... I rode a bike to Goodwill in the rain and snow. I
      wanted to be there ...I had my second chance to change my life." --
      Donna
      Because teaching a man to fish will keep him fed for his entire
      life.
      "Before I got to Goodwill, I was on a mission. I just wanted a job. It
      didn't matter what the job was, I just wanted one. Now, I'm on a journey.
      I've got more than a job; I've got a career. My instructor played a role
      like no other instructor I've ever had I appreciate everything that
      Goodwill has done for me." -- Cornell
      Each year, we help thousands of people who face tremendous obstacles.
      Their one common goal: they all want to work. A robust economy helps by
      providing job opportunities, but to be honest, most of the people who
      aren't working today are quite simply the ones who face the greatest
      obstacles.
      The kinds of services we provide help people deal with obstacles like
      health care, transportation and child care -problems that are big enough
      on their own without being compounded by factors like physical and mental
      disabilities, illiteracy and lack of job skills.
      Last year, Goodwill helped 3,300 people find jobs that increased their
      self-sufficiency. Your gift to Goodwill will be used directly to support
      services that will help even more find jobs.
      Right now, there are thousands of people who do not know what it feels
      like to support themselves. You can help them to know that feeling.
      Please help Goodwill and help people find jobs. Use the enclosed card
      and give a generous gift to Goodwill today!
      Sincerely,
      James M. McClelland President
    
  

  
  
    
      Dear ,
      A few months ago you received a letter from me telling the success
      stories of people who got jobs with Goodwill's help.
      Here's another story of success from what might seem like an unlikely
      source: Goodwill's controller, Juli. She tells me that the 3,666 people
      we helped find jobs in 1998 earned approximately $49 million dollars. In
      addition to that, by helping them find jobs, Goodwill reduced the state's
      Public Support tab by an estimated $4 million. Your gift to Goodwill will
      help us do even more this year because your gift will be used to directly
      support our work.
      What kind of work does Goodwill do?
      Goodwill finds jobs for people with mental and physical disabilities.
      After Maureen's job coach taught her how to do her job in a restaurant,
      we helped Maureen step out of the shadow sometimes cast over people with
      physical and mental disabilities and find a fulfilling job smack dab in
      the middle of society. Remember what she said in my last letter? "If I
      wasn't working here...I would be sad..."
      Goodwill helps people get off of public assistance. Sherry learned
      through our Future Works class that she could rise out of the mire of the
      welfare system and support her family. At Goodwill she gained in
      self-confidence, in her vision of her future and in the job skills she
      needed to find and keep a good job. "Coming to Goodwill was the first
      step toward my becoming totally independent. I am now... totally off of
      welfare."
      Goodwill prepares people for life-long employment. Cornell found a
      number of employment options that he never dreamed existed after a
      work-site injury forced him out of his job at a foundry. He trained in
      desktop publishing and combined his enthusiastic work ethic with
      new-found skills in a burgeoning industry. "I've got more than a job;
      I've got a career."
      Goodwill provides jobs at Goodwill. After a lifetime of trials, Donna
      not only earned her GED at Goodwill, she earned a job here. "I rode a
      bike to Goodwill in the rain and snow. I wanted to be there...I had my
      second chance to change my life."
      Your gift to Goodwill will help the many people who want to tell their
      own stories of success. Your support will help them go to work.
      Please use the enclosed envelope to give a generous gift to Goodwill
      today!
      Sincerely,
      William A Carter, Chairman Goodwill Industries Foundation
      P.S. Your gift is a wise investment in the community. For every dollar
      donated to Goodwill in 1998, we helped our "graduates" earn an estimated
      $102. That money was then spent in a variety of ways, adding fuel to our
      thriving economy.
      
    
  

  
  
    
      November 15, 1996
      Dear Personal Donor:
      In the short while since Goodwill helped him find his job, Robert has
      learned to thoroughly clean a motel room in about 40 minutes. His job
      objectives call for him to do it in 30.
      He has no time to waste.
      Neither do we. With the help of friends like you, Goodwill has
      continued to adapt our services to meet the human needs of our changing
      society.
      We don't waste time as we are helping the community. And we don't
      waste money. The gift that I am asking you to make will be used to
      continue our mission of helping people prepare for, find and keep
      jobs.
      In their December, 1995 review of the nation's best charities, U.S.
      News & World Report called Goodwill one of the five "Standout Good
      Guys." The magazine stated that Goodwill (as well as the other standouts)
      is "uniquely effective, innovative or valuable."
      While I appreciate U.S. News & World Report's endorsement, the
      true value of your support is measured by the way Goodwill takes on
      problems that affect all of us.
      Every time we help someone find a solution to their employment
      barrier, the positive effects radiate throughout our community: The
      business community welcomes not only another worker, but a consumer with
      increased purchasing power. Parents act as role models of
      self-sufficiency instead of dependency. Tax dollars that would have been
      spent on public assistance are saved.
      You and I know that solutions to difficult problems don't just happen.
      At Goodwill, it is the hard work of staff and those who benefit from our
      services that produces the kind of inspiring results I see every day:
      A Goodwill staff member addresses a group of welfare recipients: "You
      can earn the money to support yourself and your family," she says. "You
      can get off welfare. I know you can... I did."
      A participant in a Goodwill program rushes back from a job interview
      to share the results with his classmates in our desktop publishing
      training program. once his tears have subsided, he confirms what his
      classmates have already figured out: he just received a job offer -- his
      first in five years.
      Addressing a meeting at a neighborhood center, a Goodwill staff member
      tells the audience how Goodwill can help them find and keep jobs. On his
      way home, he shares the story with four people at a street corner. At the
      next corner he tells five more.
      In order to develop job skills, a man with some serious disabilities
      begins working in Goodwill's industrial division. It takes a long time
      for him to gain the self-confidence to work elsewhere in the community.
      Eventually, he turns your support into a payoff for all of us. He proudly
      leaves Goodwill to support himself.
      These people and their successes are real. Just like the respect we've
      earned from U.S. News & World Report. Just like the impact Goodwill's
      work has on our community.
      Real work. Real results. A real difference in people's lives -- in all
      of our lives.
      The people who can benefit most directly from your generosity have no
      time to waste. Neither do the rest of us who feel the positive results of
      their success. Your support helps provide real solutions.
      Please use the enclosed response card and envelope to give generously
      to Goodwill today.
      Sincerely,
      
      
      Jack Dustman Board Member and Former Chairman
      
    
  

  
  
    
      December 10, 1996
      Dear Mailhouse donor reminder:
      You and I have done some important work together.
      We've helped people break free of the welfare cycle. We've found ways
      for people with disabilities to enter the workforce. We've expanded
      Goodwill's proven methods to towns and neighborhoods where they are
      needed most.
      Of course, we've played different roles. You have helped make
      Goodwill's work possible with your previous support. Goodwill has devised
      the programs that turned your investment into results.
      Who has benefited from our partnership? Everyone has. When you and I
      help somebody find a job, one more person joins the ranks of tax payers,
      fewer tax dollars are spent on public assistance and businesses gain
      another consumer.
      There are a lot of barriers that keep people from working: physical
      and mental disabilities, history of welfare dependency and lack of
      education or self-esteem. And there are a lot of people who face these
      challenges every day of their lives. So our work must continue.
      Everyone benefits from the work we do together. Many people need our
      help.
      Please continue our important partnership. Support Goodwill with a
      generous donation today.
      Sincerely,
      James M. McClelland President
    
  

  
  
    
      November 15, 1994
      Dear ,
      Think of your greatest accomplishments. Think of the joy and success
      they bring to you and your loved ones.
      Michael Sims felt that way at age 39 -- the day he earned a job.
      Michael was born with cerebral palsy. Upon entering the work force, he
      discovered few job opportunities that seemed to match his abilities.
      For several years he performed packaging and clerical work. His most
      recent job lasted only a year before cut-backs eliminated his
      position.
      For 18 long months Michael could not find a job. He resorted to public
      assistance dollars to survive. Finally, Michael called Goodwill.
      At Goodwill, Michael's counselors felt that his personable demeanor
      could be a major attribute and identified for him a possible job-match
      where his people skills could shine.
      After three interviews, Michael proved that he was the right person
      for the job. As the Clubhouse Monitor at Bent Tree Apartments, he now
      provides customer service for 50 to 60 tenants each night.
      At last, he has found success in a job that he loves. Now his goals
      are set on moving up in the company.
      Every year, thousands of people come to Goodwill. Like Michael, they
      share two common characteristics. They face some barrier to employment
      and they want to work.
      With support from people like you, they can overcome their barriers
      and earn success and the self-sufficiency that comes with it. And then
      the pay-off begins for the entire community.
      Individual successes at Goodwill mean fewer persons receiving public
      support and more paying taxes. Last year, participants in Goodwill
      programs earned --and paid taxes on -- wages of nearly $3.5 million.
      Their successes at work also saved taxpayers more than three-quarters of
      a million dollars in public assistance.
      The savings are counted in more ways than dollars and cents, however.
      The families of the new wage earners may feel the accomplishment in terms
      of a house to live in, money to purchase food -- without food stamps --
      and the beginning of a family focused on success, not hopelessness.
      Won't you help make all of these successes possible? Please send the
      largest contribution you can comfortably make. Your gift will help give
      new meaning to the word success -- for people who have seldom had reason
      to use the word.
      Sincerely,
      James M. McClelland President
      P.S. Your gift will make a difference. For every dollar of public
      support Goodwill received last year, we returned $1.59 to the community
      in the form of earned wages and reduced public assistance payments.
    
  

  
  
    
      Some of the strongest critics of our welfare system are the people who
      have become dependent on it.
      Their complaint: the system discourages working because unemployment
      provides benefits that many entry-level jobs don't include.
      That's where you --and Goodwill --come in. We help people train for
      and find jobs that make it possible for them to get off of welfare. Last
      year, Goodwill placed 511 people in jobs, more than double the number we
      placed in 1993.
      While the debate on welfare reform is gathering like a storm at sea,
      the people who need jobs are floundering. We need your support to
      continue getting people off of public assistance.
      Welfare is not the answer. And welfare reform is an uncertain solution
      with an unknown starting date. Goodwill works. Right now.
      Please give the largest gift you can to Goodwill today.
      Sincerely,
      Jack Dustman Chairman
    
  

  
  
    
      March 17, 2000
      Name Address City, ST, Zip
      Dear Name:
      When Jerry was released from prison, he knew it would take hard work
      and determination to straighten out his life. He knew he had made a bad
      mistake, but despite his commitment to rebuilding his life, he just
      didn't count on the obstacles that would be thrown up in his path.
      Reality hit when he was unable to reconcile with his wife and ended up
      on the street. He went to the Center Township Trustee for food stamps
      until he could find a job and a place to live. The Trustee referred him
      to the Blue Triangle where he consulted Goodwill's Career Academy staff
      for job search assistance.
      Jerry's Goodwill caseworker found him a job immediately. But Jerry's
      troubles didn't end there. The seasonal construction job he obtained soon
      ended, and he returned to Career Academy for help once more. Unemployed,
      homeless and with a prison record, Jerry now faced going back to prison
      for failure to pay child support.
      It took some time and hard work, but with the help of Goodwill, Jerry
      was able to work out a payment plan with the prosecutor's office, find
      housing and conduct a more thorough job search.
      With unemployment at its lowest point in years in central Indiana,
      many people still have a hard time finding meaningful employment. Of the
      more than 42,000 people Goodwill served in 1999, over 5,000 of them have
      multiple barriers to finding and keeping a job. Some, like Jerry, are
      ex-offenders. Some are blind, deaf or have other physical disabilities.
      More than 100 were homeless.
      But Goodwill offers hope even to people with numerous obstacles to
      overcome, like Jerry. With a promising new job at a plastic injection
      molding manufacturer, his legal troubles in check and a safe place to
      live, Jerry can get on with the business of building a life for himself
      and contributing to his community. For as long as he needs it, Goodwill
      will continue to help.
      Your support of Goodwill will provide job training and placement
      services to help the hardest to serve in central Indiana find meaningful
      employment. And, with your assistance, Goodwill can help employers
      develop resources to keep workers on the job.
      Please make an investment in the stability of our community by sending
      a gift to Goodwill. Your generosity will help people help themselves.
      Sincerely,
      James M. McClelland President
    
  

  
  
    
      June 21, 1999
      Name Address City, ST Zip
      Dear ,
      Do you remember the combination of elation and apprehension you felt
      when you first left home? The young adults who leave Pleasant Run have
      those same feelings. Very few have family support to get them started.
      Many need furniture, linens and other basic necessities to begin lives on
      their own.
      To help them establish themselves in the community, the Pleasant Run
      Emancipation fund was begun in 1993 by private donors who wanted to
      provide a measure of financial support for those leaving our
      programs.
      Individuals who are being emancipated are eligible to receive up to
      $500 from the Fund if they formally apply and meet four requirements: 1.
      Release by the courts 2. Successful completion of all life skills tests
      3. Positive termination of his or her Pleasant Run program 4. Possession
      of a high school diploma or GED
      Proof of meeting these, two staff reference letters and an essay
      stating why they should receive a grant and how it will be used are all
      reviewed by a Pleasant Run panel, which determines if the applicant
      merits the funds.
      Such fund are often used for college tuition, vocational training or a
      deposit on an apartment.
      Because Pleasant Run is the only "family" for so many, our
      Emancipation Fund is one way we can help a young person take the first
      steps into his or her new life as an independent and productive
      adult.
      Without private donor support, this Fund doesn't exist. Please take a
      few minutes to send a donation to help one or more of our children
      successfully cross that threshold into the future.
      Sincerely,
      Mary Roth Executive Director
    
  

  
  
    
      November 27, 1995
      Dear Friend:
      What kind of people benefit by your contribution to Pleasant Run
      Children's Homes?
      Little ones, like Baby Jessica, caught in the struggle between
      adoptive and birth parents. Older kids, like Tracy and Kerry, left
      homeless after a recent murder-suicide in Indianapolis claimed Mom and
      Dad. Young adults, like Mary T., a jobless mother of three, trying
      desperately to keep her kids out of trouble in a crime-ridden
      neighborhood. Real people!
      There are thousands more. Families are being torn apart, and too
      often, children are the victims. Kids like Tommie J., made a ward of the
      court because of repeated beatings by an alcoholic father; Alice, sent to
      a group home to get help because of severe behavior disorders; and John
      H., a recovering alcoholic, rebuilding a relationships with his family so
      they can live together again.
      Pleasant Run Children's Homes began serving children nearly 130 years
      ago. Then the task was to help children who lost parents in the Civil
      War. Today, we serve children and families with a multitude of problems:
      emotional, physical, psychological and sexual abuse. Some come from
      families where, through therapy, there is hope for reunification. For
      others, "families" are the counselors are housemates at the group homes
      where they live.
      The biggest tragedy is that the problems don't go away; they only
      grow. In 1994 Pleasant Run served 346 children and 125 families. In 1995
      we will serve over 850 children and 340 families. In 1996, these figures
      will triple. The children and families who come to Pleasant Run are given
      the opportunity to become happy, loving, and productive members of our
      society. They welcome the chance to belong, to become self- sufficient,
      to regain their self-esteem and confidence. Often it is a long, hard
      struggle, but the results are well worth it.
      For Pleasant Run to continue to serve abused and neglected children
      and their families, we need your support. The Funding sources are
      shrinking, but the needs grow explosively. Please "help good kids get
      better" by sending us a contribution today. Your gift will give children
      and families hope for improved tomorrows.
      Sincerely,
      Mary Roth
    
  

  
  
    
      June 26, 1995
      Dear Friend:
      This is not newsletter. It is a fund-raising appeal.
      But there's no reason why we shouldn't share good news at the same
      time. Federal, state and local governments are freezing or withdrawing
      much-needed funding sources for people who are truly in need. In spite of
      that, Pleasant Run Children's Homes, with the help of hundreds of
      volunteers and others who really care, continues to make a significant
      impact on the futures of families and kids in need of help.
      We all hear about today's increases in neglect, abuse and abandonment
      of those who can't fight back: children. Yet few of us hear enough about
      kids who live through these adversities and do make the grade.
      The positive side. These are special children. They come into a
      Pleasant Run program... whether it's for therapeutic help in their own
      homes (which nurtures whole families), through foster care families or in
      the familial surroundings of our residential homes.
      For some, it's a matter of weeks or months; for others, it's years.
      They leave Pleasant Run, generally, ready and able to contribute to
      society. We're proud of our children and all that they overcome.
      We are a not-for-profit, multi-service agency. We wouldn't exist if
      the need weren't there. The numbers of children who deserve our services
      are rising... as quickly as our programs can grow to serve them.
      Please help us help them. Pleasant Run Children's Homes... "where good
      kids get better."
      Sincerely,
      Mary Roth Tom Hirschauer
    
  

  
  
    
      Dear Friends of Pleasant Run:
      The holiday season is the time of year when we're all busy buying
      gifts, baking goodies, decorating our homes and making arrangements to be
      with family and friends. This is the time of year when we give thanks for
      the warmth and love that surrounds us. And this time of year is an
      occasion to remember those not as fortunate as we are.
      Pleasant Run cares for at-risk children and families. We do this
      through a wide range of programs including community- based, therapeutic
      foster care, group homes and our treatment center. Many of the children
      are victims of abuse or live in unstable homes.
      Today we are asking you to take a few minutes to consider making a
      contribution to Pleasant Run to help the 1,500 children families we care
      for. Many of the children have no homes; no memories of joy from past
      holidays. Others are from families that are struggling to provide a
      healthy, happy environment but don't have the resources to make it
      possible. Your contribution will make a difference in a child's life. It
      may help a family stay together. It can certainly make happy holiday
      memories.
      A gift to Pleasant Run means the children in our care will have
      presents to open. A gift means a family will have a holiday meal, cooking
      utensils to prepare the meal and dishes to serve it on. Your gift will go
      beyond the holiday season. It can help purchase clothing, school
      supplies, books and educational tools throughout the year.
      
      Please take a few minutes to mail a donation to Pleasant run. Let our
      families and children know that you want them to have the same kinds of
      memories of the holidays you will have.
      We wish you and your family a new year full of joy and love.
      Sincerely,
      Mary Roth Executive Director
    
  

  
  
    
      It's hard to believe that the holiday season is only two months away.
      At Pleasant Run, Inc. we are making plans and arrangements for our
      children and families.
      Every year we seek companies, organizations and individuals to sponsor
      one or more of our families. These families are participants in our
      community-based programs. These programs focus on keeping the family
      together by providing counseling and other services to the entire family.
      After our caseworkers meet with these families and their children they
      often find they lack even the basic necessities such as cooking utensils,
      beds, cleaning supplies, etc. We meet these needs immediately. But, the
      holiday season is a particularly difficult time for these families. They
      do not have the resources necessary to purchase gifts or food for a
      holiday meal.
      We are asking you to consider sponsoring one of our families for this
      holiday season. If you are interested and would like more information,
      please contact Lisa Lusk or Marcia Whited at 693-9222. We would like to
      have families matched with sponsors non later than xxxx. Thank you for
      considering this opportunity to make this a memorable holiday season for
      a family in need.
      Sincerely,
    
  

  
  
    
      June 1, 1998 BOYS & Girls Club OF INDIANAPOLIS
      Dear Friend,
      It's summertime, so it must be time for CAMP! Yes, it's that time of
      the year -- the start of the Boys & Girls clubs of Indianapolis'
      Camp. Six weeks of learning and exploring, sports, arts, and fellowship.
      A time for a youngster to enjoy the fun and benefits of residential camp
      living, dedicated staff and instruction, and a chance to make special
      friends.
      
      I know you're committed to ensuring today's children have safe,
      healthy, and positive summer experiences. That's why I want you to learn
      more about the Super Summer Safari Camp.
      At Super Summer Safari Camp, there are daily sports, nature, and arts
      activities. In addition to the fun stuff, important life-skills such as
      self-esteem, leadership, and interpersonal cooperation are being
      developed. Please read the enclosed brochure for more information on the
      wonderful Super Summer Safari Camp!
      It costs $225 to send one child to camp. Many members of the Boys
      & Girls Clubs of Indianapolis can't afford to go to camp without
      financial assistance, and that's why we need you!
      Please make camp possible for all deserving Indianapolis children and
      send in a tax deductible contribution today in the enclosed envelope.
      Consider sponsoring 1, 2, or 3 children. No matter the size of the
      donation, please know that your gift will be appreciated and make a
      difference.
      Sincerely,
      Richard Dickinson
      P.S. You can make a difference in a child's life. Sponsor a child at
      the Boys & Girls Clubs of Indianapolis' summer camp today!
      
    
  

  
  
    
      February 26, 1999
      Dear ,
      Kids today face overwhelming pressures, everything from trouble at
      home to gangs and drugs. Youngsters often find themselves feeling
      alienated and alone.
      That's where the Boys & Girls Clubs of Indianapolis come in. We
      reach out to kids -- especially those from disadvantaged neighborhoods
      where the risks are highest. We give them a chance to realize their own
      potential by giving them a place where they can develop a sense of
      competence, of usefulness, a sense of belonging and of influence.
      To accomplish this, the five area Boys & Girls Clubs of
      Indianapolis must be open and available when the kids need them, with the
      staff and programs the kids need to reach and grow into responsible and
      caring citizens.
      This costs money. Money for programs, for equipment, and for repairs
      and improvements to club facilities. Your contribution last year of
      helped us get where we are today. We are counting on you now to help us
      get where we need to be tomorrow. Would you please consider a gift of the
      same in 1999?
      Please, give generously. The kids are depending on you.
      Respectfully,
      James Campbell President of the Board Deputy Chief, Indianapolis
      Police Department
      A United Way Agency
      Please detach and return in the enclosed envelope.
      
    
  

  
  
    
      Come one, Come all to the Inaugural Jameson Grill
      The only fund raising event in the world where you can bring your
      entire family, other employees, or maybe even your neighbors.
      Saturday, September 20,1997, from 2:00 p.m. until 7:00 p.m., marks a
      special day, as Jameson Camp will hold its first ever Jameson Grill. A
      fund raiser dedicated to you and your family having fun!!
      For this event, when you purchase a corporate picnic table, you will
      be able to bring 16 people. (and if you need room for a couple of more,
      we can swing that too!)
      The Grill will feature enough activities that you and your kids will
      have a tough time deciding what to do. From basketball, kickball,
      volleyball, archery, crafts, an egg toss, and even a walk through our
      creek, you will have plenty to do to get you good and hungry.
      Hungry, you bet! We'll prepare a hog roast and hot dogs for the kids,
      with all the fixings.
      In addition, we will have soft drinks and a raffle, so that you can
      walk home with a great prize!
      The Jameson Grill has been designed to be nothing but fun for you,
      your family, employees, and maybe even your neighbors.
      Join in this wonderful event and help Jameson Camp continue to provide
      the year-round support that gives kids a chance to create dreams.
      Simply fill out the enclosed card, and we will see you at the
      Grill!
      One of our volunteers will be contacting you soon.
      Questions? Call Pat Bray at 241-2661 or e-mail, jcfundrzr@aol.com
      
    
  

  
  
    
      July 11, 1997
      Name Address City, State Zip
      Dear Mr./Mrs. Name:
      We need your help in continuing the work of Jameson Camp.
      Jameson is a not-for-profit agency established in 1928 to serve the
      youth of central Indiana who have special needs. The camp offers summer
      residential programs for children from ages 7-17, and continues contact
      with the campers and their families with special overnight and weekend
      follow-up events during the school year.
      All children who attend the camp are referred by social workers,
      doctors, teachers, counselors, and other professionals. Many of the
      children have learning disabilities, behavioral problems, or come from
      economically distressed families. The goal of our organized camping
      experience is to improve the total health of the children socially,
      emotionally, and physically.
      This year Jameson Camp is planning an Inaugural fund-raising event:
      The Jameson Grill! This event is designed to be fun for campers, their
      families, friends of the camp, neighbors, staff, and anyone interested in
      finding out more about Jameson. In short, Fun for Everyone!
      The family-friendly event, September 20, 1997, will include a hog
      roast, activities for kids and adults, prizes for activities, and a small
      raffle. Lucky attendees can go home with a great prize. This is where we
      need your help.
      Can you help support this wonderful event by furnishing any type of
      products or services that can be used as prizes for our activities or as
      a raffle prize? Your contribution will help with funding so Jameson Camp
      can continue providing the year-round camping experience that gives kids
      a chance to create dreams.
      Enclosed is a form you can complete and return to us in the
      postage-paid envelope. Or, you can fax us at 241-2760, or e-mail,
      icfundrzr@aol.com. Your quick response will help us begin organizing our
      prizes. After we receive your commitment, we will contact you about
      picking up your contribution. If you have any questions, please call me
      at 241-2661.
      We appreciate your support of our first event of this type.
      Sincerely,
      Pat Bray Director of Development
      Help Blaze The Trail -- 1997 Jameson Camp Thank you for your last
      Annual Fund Gift!
    
  

  
  
    
      July 25,1997
      Dear Name,
      What a Summer!
      And we're just getting started!
      I hope you'll consider continuing your support of Jameson's special
      campers by renewing your last gift of $ xxx. I can tell you we need your
      help now as much as ever before.
      All of our Six summer camping sessions are booked to capacity (and,
      truth be told, with maybe one our two extra returning campers squeezed
      in) and we have a waiting list of 60 children who are hoping to come if a
      spot should open. Many more camper referrals are coming from new
      organizations such as school social-workers and family counseling
      agencies. It seems summer options aren't readily available for troubled
      kids whose families have limited incomes, so we're doing all we can to
      make Jameson available.
      That "we" includes the Youth Leadership teens. These 60 or so campers
      have takenon a fund raiser with a goal of raising $16,000 for
      camperships. Two of them told me yesterday that as a group they decided
      they had to earn the right to ask others for help by accomplishing
      something real to help themselves. And that's from kids many people see
      as a problem.
      Even after the summer sessions come to a close, Jameson campers will
      take part in year-round programs designed to keep that positive contact
      with peers and role models alive and important. We've scheduled more than
      15 follow-up camper weekends beginning in September and going around till
      next summers camping season.
      Please, consider renewing your support of these great kids today.
      Sincerely,
      Julie Marsh Executive Director
      P.S. We know our follow-up weekends are going to be better attended
      than ever this fall and winter. If you can give a little more to help
      meet this increased expense we would appreciate your support.
      
    
  

  
  
    
      June 10, 1997
      Name Address City, ST Zip
      Dear Mrs. Name,
      Confidence. An understanding that, above anything else, success
      requires genuine effort, a willingness to set challenging goals. Caring
      about others.
      These are the attributes we want all children to have. You help
      Jameson campers reach for them. If these special children are to become
      the adults we all need them to be, we have to lead them in the right
      direction right now.
      Jameson points the way for children who need that extra hand and I
      hope you'll continue your support this year. You're last gift of $50.00
      helped make it possible for us to provide guidance, encouragement and fun
      to nearly 400 Indianapolis area children. And not just during the summer,
      but throughout the year.
      What has your support of our campers meant to them and what have they
      been able to accomplish because you care?
      The best indicator I can give you of the positive effect our
      year-round contact has is the growth in and deeds of the Youth Leadership
      teens. In just the past few years this program has grown from a few kids
      and a few extra activities to a team of almost 60 young adults taking on
      real projects. YL teens will make J.C. juniors happen again this year for
      7 and 8 year old campers. A five day camp, J.C. juniors introduces
      at-risk children to Jameson two years earlier than we could previously
      reach them. That means we now have the opportunity to be a stable,
      positive and important part of each child's life for an entire
      decade.
      The teens have also decided to raise money to provide camperships for
      other campers because they know what Jameson has meant to them. And their
      activities aren't isolated to Jameson. The teens have undertaken a
      volunteer project to regularly visit with sick children at a local
      hospital.
      Please consider renewing your gift today. The kids need your
      leadership now more than ever. If you can increase your last donation, we
      would appreciate that show of support for the campers and their efforts
      to overcome obstacles and create successful lives.
      Thank you again for helping point the way.
      Sincerely,
      Julie Marsh, Executive Director
      P.S. You make it possible for us to help special kids with learning
      disabilities, behavior problems and economic disadvantages to gain the
      confidence required to put genuine effort into achieving real goals. I
      hope you'll continue -- and if possible increase - your support for these
      great kids.
    
  

  
  
    
      July30,1999
      Name Address City, ST Zip
      Dear Mr. Ratcliff:
      CCI is a federation of 13 neighborhood-based multi-service centers
      whose mission is to identify and meet the human service needs of
      residents throughout Marion County in the most effective, efficient and
      comprehensive way possible. In 1998, we served a total of 31,484
      low-income individuals through job training and placement assistance,
      youth and senior programming, family counseling, emergency assistance,
      and much more.
      As you can see from the enclosed map, your Target store is located in
      the heart of four of our service areas. The centers that serve these
      areas, Mary Rigg Neighborhood Center, Hawthorne Community Center,
      Southwest Multi-Service Center, and Christamore House, have teamed up to
      run an exciting job readiness program for 14 and 15 year old area
      residents called the Summer Enrichment Program. Between June 21 and
      August 31, 45 youth will spend 20 hours a week developing life management
      and work ethic skills, learning the computer, visiting area colleges, and
      interacting with guest speakers. The end result will be kids who have a
      better understanding of and vision for their own future, be it college or
      a career.
      The Summer Enrichment Program will conclude with a celebration that
      includes family and friends. We would like to offer our youth a small
      reward for their participation by presenting them with gift certificates
      from Target. Therefore, we are asking you to donate 45, $10 gift
      certificates that can be used toward the purchase of school supplies or
      clothing, in the total amount of $450. In return, we will recognize
      Target as a sponsor during our event and in the event program.
      Target is well known for it's support of the community, and we believe
      that the Summer Enrichment Program represents your interests and concerns
      quite well. I will be happy to supply any additional information you may
      need and thank you for your consideration of our request. We look forward
      to hearing from you.
      Sincerely,
      Valery De Long Director of Development
    
  

  
  
    
      MMM F_NAME L_NAME TITLE COMPANY ADDRESS CITY,ST ZIP March 4, 1999
      Dear LTR_NAME:
      CCI has come a long way in the last five years. We've worked hard to
      structrue the organization so that we've ready to move boldly into the
      next century, and I believe that we have an exciting and successful
      future ahead of us.
      One of the areas we've decided to focus on is development. It's clear
      that if we don't increase our base of private funding, we won't have the
      kind of control we need to ensure the continued success of our centers
      and the very important services they offer. In 1998, CCI served 31,484
      individuals right in their own backyards. Where else would that many
      people turn if CCI weren't there to help?
      The community initiatives committee is working with our development
      office to put together a long-range fundraising plan that will ultimately
      bring more money into our centers. This in turn will help us to increase
      and even improve the services we offer.
      With this in mind, I am asking each one of you to make a personal
      contribution of $50, $100 or even $1,000 to show that you believe in the
      work that we do and are willing to support it with both your time and
      your finances. This way when we go out to ask for community support and
      are asked about our board giving level, we can show our in-house
      commitment through 100% board participation. I also encourage you to seek
      additional support through your company, church, or service
      organization.
      I know that our staff and committee members will be happy to go with
      you to talk to these group if you need their help. We're at an exciting
      juncture and it won't be long until we start seeing solid results from
      our efforts. Your financial support of the development process is just
      one step in making CCI a stronger, more efficient and ultimately more
      effective federation of service providers. Please, make your contribution
      today.
      Sincerely,
      J.Chris Graffeo Chair
      P.S. If you have any questions, feel free to call Valery De Long at
      CCI, 638-3360 x23.
    
  

  
  
    
      July 30, 1999
      Dear Name:
      Question What do you get in 987,165 hours with 291people in 15
      locations?
      Answer 34,700 opportunities to change a life!
      This is exactly what happened in 1997 when Community Centers of
      Indianapolis provided its comprehensive, neighborhood-based services to
      individuals and families all over Marion County. And we can do even more
      in 1999 with your financial support! Just look at the range of services
      we offer:
      70,0001 career assistance for youth Preschool for young children
      School Age Child Care for and children and youth Access services such as
      emergency and holiday assistance for all ages Adult Day Care for seniors
      Senior Case Management Aids Education for youth and adults Senior Social
      Involvement Computer Training for youth, adults and seniors Senior
      Nutrition meal program Day Care for young children Social Development and
      Recreation for children, youth and adults. HIPPY (Home Instructional
      Program for Preschool Youngsters) for families. Stopover crises
      counseling for youth. In Home Services for adults and seniors.
      Transportation for youth and seniors
      
      CCI is a federation of 13 neighborhood-based multi-service centers
      (plus one affiliate) whose mission is to identify and meet the human
      service needs of the greater Indianapolis community in the most
      effective, efficient and comprehensive way possible. Better yet, most of
      these services occur in cooperation with private and public agencies from
      all over the city - CICOA The Access Network, Goodwill Industries,
      Indianapolis Housing Agency, City of Indianapolis, Indianapolis Private
      Industry Council, Family and Social Services administration, OTC, Indy
      Parks, and numerous community development corporations, neighborhood
      organizations, and churches, to name just a few.
      More than 34,000 people benefited from our services in 1997, and the
      final count for 1998 could be even higher. We're asking for a
      contribution in the amount of because you can't got a better bang for
      your buck than to support an organization that impacts so many lives in
      so many ways. Your gift will enable CCI to provide these and other
      necessary services at a neighborhood level, face-to-face, where it
      counts.
      Please, make a tax deductible gift to Community Centers of
      Indianapolis in 1999, and know that COMPANY is playing an important part
      in meeting the needs of its community. If you have any questions, please
      feel free to give us a call at 638-3360. We thank you for your
      consideration, and look forward to hearing from you.
      Sincerely,
      Earline S. Moore President
      Valery De Long Director of Development
      
    
  

  
  
    
      August 4, 1999
      Name Address City, ST Zip
      The goal of MCCOY, Inc. has been to make a difference. In 1998, MCCOY,
      Inc. led two efforts that, we believe, will help our community continue
      to take the steps necessary to help all young people grow up and develop
      well.
      Participants in the Youth Outcomes Educational Initiative identified
      three goals for all our youth to obtain: economic self-sufficiency,
      healthy family, social relationships, and involvement in the community. A
      short time later, the Community Youth Mapping Project sent 55 young
      people out into the community to identify the resources they need to grow
      up well: caring adults, safe places to go, and positive things to do.
      One group of adults and one group of youth, through two very different
      processes, have arrived at the same conclusion; our community still has
      much to do if we are to help ALL of your youth successfully develop into
      the responsible, productive adults who will our community in the
      future.
      As a provider of youth services, MCCOY, Inc. is here to support your
      valuable efforts to develop young people. Recently, through a lot of hard
      work and alliances with organizations like yours, some steps have been
      taken in our community that will help young people continue to be
      involved in positive activities. One, IndyGo in April adopted a
      much-needed policy that all young people under the age of 19 may ride on
      their buses at half the normal fare all year long. Two, funding was made
      available this summer for youth organizations and churches to conduct
      positive youth programming on Saturday evenings. Through the youth
      mapping process, it was confirmed that the positive opportunities for
      youth on weekend evenings were lacking. That need is being met.
      As it has been an exciting year for all of us, MCCOY, Inc. cannot do
      its part without the support of organizations like yours. Annually, we
      ask several of our youth serving organizations to join us in our effort
      to help young people grow up well in Indianapolis. Enclosed is a donation
      card that will enable you to make Indianapolis a great place for ALL of
      us to live. If you have any questions or concerns at any time, please do
      not hesitate to call me at 921-1288.
      Sincerely,
      John F. Brandon, President MCCOY, Inc.
    
  

  
  
    
      January 5, 1997
      Name Address City, ST Zip
      Dear Bill:
      This is the time of year when our thoughts turn to ways to do things
      differently, things that will make our lives better and improve the
      quality of our life. As you begin that process this year, I would like to
      ask you to consider helping young people in Marion County toward more
      positive youth development by becoming a supporter of the Marion County
      Commission on Youth, Inc.
      MCCOY Inc., originally founded as a government agency but re-organized
      in 1993 as an independent not-for-profit, is a county-wide youth services
      coordinating, planning, and convening agency. Its purpose is to encourage
      collaboration and cooperation between the various agencies, programs, and
      systems that serve our community's youth. In addition to that
      behind-the-scenes role, MCCOY has taken an out-front role in developing a
      Summer Bus Pass, neighborhood youth councils, and the We Value Youth
      information line. It is our goal that every young person in Marion County
      have access to the programs and services that can best assist them in
      their growth toward a positive adulthood.
      I am hopeful that you as an individual and Meridian Insurance as a
      corporation might consider becoming sustaining supporters of MCCOY. I
      have enclosed a packet of information about MCCOY and its work as well as
      an application with various options for supporting the youth of our
      community.
      I obviously can't tell the whole story of MCCOY in a single letter but
      I hope this provides an overview of the scope of our work. I will call
      you in a few weeks to discuss your level of interest. Please consider
      joining together with your fellow citizens in support of the work of the
      Marion County Commission on Youth.
      Sincerely,
      John Brandon Executive Director
    
  

  
  
    
      October 7, 1996
      Name Address City, ST Zip
      Dear Name:
      In the summer of 1993, the Marion County Commission on Youth began
      what can best be described as a "new era" in its history. MCCOY was
      reorganized as an independent, not-for-profit agency, separate from local
      government. It retained, however, the same mission with which it had been
      charged from its inception: to serve as a catalyst for effective,
      coordinated, and collaborative service delivery to youth in our
      community.
      For the past three years, MCCOY has been actively engaged in
      accomplishing this declared mission in cooperation with many others:
      youth service providers, youth, funding bodies, and interested citizens
      to name a few.
      We have met with a number of successes along the way, most notably the
      Summer Fun Line, the Metro Summer Bus Pass, and the development of ten
      neighborhood youth councils. A Providers Council and a Youth Coalition
      are building relationships that will hopefully bear great fruit in the
      years to come. The formation of The Community Academy, a pilot project
      directed at expelled students from local school systems, has come about
      as a result of MCCOY's efforts to mobilize community agencies in response
      to a pressing issue.
      McCoy is actively represented and working with numerous community
      collaborations where we regularly raise our voice to speak out for the
      inclusion of young people in both decision-making and program planning
      processes. One concrete example is a joint project undertaken in the
      United Northwest Area in partnership with The Junior League of
      Indianapolis and Community Partnerships with Youth from Fort Wayne,
      Indiana. As a team, these three organizations are working with
      neighborhood youth and adults to build a "Caring Neighborhood with Youth"
      , mobilizing the assets of young people and adults as partners to build a
      better neighborhood for all.
      Since its re-organization, MCCOY has established its unique niche
      within the community by refraining from direct service programming and
      focusing on what it does best: helping to identify youth needs, convening
      groups of individuals and organizations which can address those needs,
      and moving toward collaborative solutions. McCoy has only one interest:
      the well being of Marion County's young people.
      McCoy invites the support of The __ Company Foundation in the amount
      of $10,000.00 to support such activities as:
      ---- the co-ordination of youth leadership training and youth
      empowerment efforts at the neighborhood level by means of
      neighborhood-based youth councils; ---- the promotion of youth employment
      opportunities; ---- the facilitation of ongoing discussions regarding
      effective and efficient youth service delivery;
      ---- the provision of technical assistance and guidance to
      neighborhoods which seek positive youth-adult relationships;
      ---- the development of community-wide supports for the positive
      growth of all Marion County young people.
      In the last several years, the business and corporate community has
      recognized that the positive development of youth is directly related to
      the development of a competent workforce. Youth who are supported and
      encouraged by both a family and a society that values
      
      Them have a much greater likelihood of becoming productive and
      contributing members of adult society. While we have made significant
      inroads, there remains much to be done and it is clear that we cannot do
      it alone. We seek the financial support of the Foundation to help us be
      successful in creating the atmosphere in our community where young people
      can grow and develop well. Your contribution will enable us to both
      continue and expand the good work we have begun in making Indianapolis a
      city famous for its commitment to youth and families.
      In our fund raising efforts to date, we have received the support of
      local government, foundations, and corporations as well as the personal
      financial commitments of individual MCCOY Board members. We believe there
      is no more appropriate time to have a coordinated and collaborative
      effort to financially support the services MCCOY offers to the community
      as a whole.
      Thanking you in advance for your support, we remain,
      Sincerely,
      John T. Neighbours Philip B. Roby President Treasurer
      John F. Brandon Executive Director
    
  

  
  
    
      July 28, 1999
      Dear
      Join us for the "Sale of the Century" at JCC Auction '99, on Saturday,
      November 13, 1999. The 9th annual JCC Auction will benefit the numerous
      scholarship programs of the Jewish Community Center of Indianapolis, a
      United Way agency. Because you are an organization that cares, you are
      invited to become an integral part of this fabulous event by becoming a
      corporate sponsor for JCC Auction '99.
      The JCC would be very pleased to welcome your organization as a
      corporate sponsor. We are seeking to build partnerships between
      businesses and our not-for-profit agency. As a sponsor, you and your
      guests will have a special evening, knowing that your tax deductible
      contribution will help support preschool, childcare, senior and
      resettlement services, as well as quality cultural events in our
      community.
      Enclosed is a corporate sponsorship package that includes a sample
      auction book from last year's event, JCC market statistics and an
      overview of the many programs that will be preserved and strengthened
      through your generous support.
      One of us will call you to discuss how your company can become an
      important highly visible partner with the JCC in support of our
      scholarship programs. If you have any questions, please feel free to call
      Myrna Weinberger at 251-9467, ext. 256. Thank you in advance for your
      consideration.
      Sincerely, Judy Laikin, Chair Auction '99 Sponsor Committee
      
    
  

  
  
    
      October 27, 1998
      Dear Name:
      Join us for the "Sale of the Century" at JCC Auction '99, on Saturday,
      November 13, 1999. The 9th annual JCC Auction will benefit the numerous
      scholarship programs of the Jewish Community Center of Indianapolis, a
      United Way agency. Because you are an organization that cares, you are
      invited once again to be an integral part of this fabulous event as a
      corporate sponsor for JCC Auction '99.
      We are so grateful for your generous contribution to last year's
      auction. Your continued participation is very important to the JCC, as we
      work to build partnerships between businesses and our not-for-profit
      agency. As a sponsor, you and your guests will have a special evening,
      knowing that your tax deductible contribution will help support
      preschool, childcare, senior and resettlement services, as well as
      quality cultural events in our community.
      Enclosed is a corporate sponsorship package that includes a sample of
      your ad from last year's auction book, current JCC market statistics and
      an overview of the many JCC programs that will be preserved and
      strengthened through your generous support.
      One of us will call you to discuss how your company can continue to be
      an important, highly visible partner with the JCC in support of our
      scholarship programs. If you have any questions, please feel free to call
      Myrna Weinberger at 251-9467, ext. 256. Thank you in advance for your
      consideration.
      Sincerely,
      Judy Laikin, Chair Auction '99 Sponsor Committee
    
  

  
  
    
      
      Name Address City, State, Zip
      Dear Name,
      It's tough growing up today. We know that children do better when they
      have a network of caring adults to nurture and motivate them. When young
      people don't have that support, they need other resources for
      encouragement to guide them along the way. Big Sisters helps bridge that
      gap by providing children with the resources they need -- Big Sisters
      volunteers.
      Big Sisters are mentors and friends who empower girls to more fully
      reach their potential, experience life's opportunities and perhaps begin
      to dream. The relationships that are formed provide strong foundations
      from which healthy values and strong self-confidence can grow, helping
      youth become strong, independent adults of tomorrow.
      This year we will serve over 1,000 girls through our mentoring
      programs. This is an impressive number; but for each girl served, more
      are left unserved. Over 150 girls are currently waiting for a Big
      Sister.
      You can make an impact by supporting Big Sisters Annual Campaign and
      our $200,000 goal. If you are a regular contributor to the Annual
      Campaign, I encourage you to consider increasing your gift by 10%. If you
      have not supported Big Sisters in the past, please join me in doing so by
      completing and returning the enclosed pledge form.
      Early adolescence is the most vulnerable age for youth. But caring
      adults like you can reach out and help. It's the perfect time to make a
      world of difference.
      Sincerely,
      
      
    
  

  
  
    
      August 6, 1998
      Dear Friend:
      Adolescence. It is a pivotal time in the life of a young girl-when
      small changes in her behavior, or the choices she makes, can affect her
      future. It's hard enough for her to make good decisions when she's
      surrounded by support. It's even harder when she isn't.
      Big Sisters helps fill that void by matching caring, responsible adult
      volunteers with at-risk girls, ages 8-14. A Big Sister is a mentor, a
      friend and a role model, helping a young girl to develop the
      self-confidence and life skills necessary to become a responsible,
      productive and successful adult. Your $1,000 contribution can put a
      mentor in a child's life-and hope in a child's future.
      The results of an 18-month study completed by Public/Private Ventures
      showed that children participating in one-to-one Big Sister and Big
      Brother matches for just one year, reduced first time drug use by 46%;
      lowered school absenteeism by 52%; cut aggressive behavior by 33%;
      enhanced school performance; and improved relations with family and
      friends.
      This is positive proof that Big Sisters one-to-one mentoring program
      helps change lives. Today, we are offering you the opportunity to help
      change a life. By contributing $1,000 you can support one match for one
      year. This money maintains the infrastructure that fosters and supports
      the development of effective relationships. This includes a volunteer
      screening process, orientation, training and ongoing supervision and
      support by a professional staff.
      As a Matchmaker you will receive a description of "your match" and be
      identified as a Matchmaker on a plaque in the Big Sisters office, in the
      agency newsletter and annual report.
      Today Big Sisters serves over 1,000 girls in central Indiana. But for
      each girl served, more are left unserved. Over 235 girls are currently
      waiting for a Big Sister. Imagine the difference the community could make
      if each congregation pledged its support of one Big Sisters match!
      I encourage you to Join me in presenting this matchmaker challenge to
      your congregation.
      Sincerely,
      Dr. Linda McCoy Pastor, THE GARDEN A Blossom of St. Luke's United
      Methodist Church
    
  

  
  
    
      August 10, 1999
      Mr. Caring Philanthropy 01234 Giving Way Contribution, USA 56789
      Dear Mr. Philanthropy,
      "The urgency you feel to make changes is just the extent that change
      will be made. Do not sit this one out. Do not play it safe. Understand
      the world and change it where it needs to be changed... Make our society
      better. Make a world worthy of the children that your generation will
      bear." -- Carl Sagan
      You can help make positive changes in the lives of at-risk youth in
      central Indiana. We often hear about economic poverty, but what some of
      these young people are growing up with is emotional poverty-they have
      often given up on hope and the possibility of a successful future. With
      your help, we can change that.
      Many Little Sisters are preparing to go back to school this fall full
      of hope and with a positive outlook. Thanks to our Big Sisters
      volunteers, these young people are self-confident, believe in themselves
      and are beginning to realize their full potential. A recent study by
      Public/Private Ventures (PPV) showed that girls who had a Big Sister for
      just one year:
      reduced first-time drug use by 46% lowered school absenteeism by 52%
      cut violent behavior by 33% enhanced school performance showed improved
      peer and family relationships
      Former Little Sister Amy, now 18-years old, is a testament to the Big
      Sisters program.
      "I was matched with my Big Sister in June of 1992. Since then, she and
      I have grown very close and I have been able to experience lots of new
      things. We go to movies, dinner, concerts, and other stuff like that, but
      I have also been able to participate in charity events and fundraiser
      type things.
      Not only did I have a lot of fun with my Big Sister, but I learned a
      lot from her too. I have become more open-minded, more responsible, and,
      most importantly, I have gained a lot more self-confidence. I am very
      thankful to the Big Sisters program for allowing me this very special
      opportunity.
      In 1998, Big Sisters served 972 young people through its many
      programs. But the need is still great. Over 170 young people are still
      waiting for a mentor.
      You are an important part in making sure these young people are
      matched with caring adult mentors. Will you make a financial gift to Big
      Sisters in 1999 that will ensure that more young people receive the
      guidance they need, that more young people stay in school, stay off drugs
      and make good choices?
      Your contribution will be used to recruit and retain quality
      volunteers. It will also be used to help maintain the infrastructure that
      fosters and supports the development of effective relationships,
      including volunteer orientation and training and ongoing supervision and
      support by a professional staff. This year your gift can go farther!
      Gifts of $100 or more will be matched thanks to a special 25th
      Anniversary $100,000 Challenge Grant and will be placed in the Growth For
      Girls Fund. This fund will support the goal of having 550 mentoring
      relationships by the end of 1999 and 1,200 by the end of 2004.
      If you would like to find out more about the Big Sisters program,
      please call us, (317) 634-6102 and ask for Ellen Robinson. Thank you very
      much for your time, attention and consideration.
      Sincerely,
      Andrew T. Burns Patron Relations Chairperson
      P.S. When you give to Big Sisters, you can get 50% back! For a minimum
      contribution of $250, you become eligible for a 50% Indiana state tax
      credit through the Indiana Department of Commerce Neighborhood Assistance
      Program (NAP). A limited number of credits are available. To receive an
      application form, check the NAP box on the enclosed pledge card or call
      us, (317) 634-6102, ext. 20.
    
  

  
  
    
      March 29, 1999
      Name Address City, ST Zip
      Dear Name:
      The 1999 Invest in Youth Campaign is in full swing. As a former board
      member, the success of the YMCA is still important to me. We must be able
      to reach all youth and families interested in values-based programs. The
      Invest in Youth campaign helps insure this.
      New initiatives in the inner-city are taking hold. The Urban Mission
      Branch is reaching out to middle school youth with programs based on
      caring, honesty, respect and responsibility for themselves and others.
      For some, these are very different messages from the ones heard in the
      street. They are learning to make positive choices concerning alcohol,
      tobacco and other drugs and to support each other when those choices are
      challenged.
      You have shared in the vision and the leadership of the YMCA of
      Greater Indianapolis. I now invite you to continue to support the mission
      and the message that is so important to building strong kids, strong
      families and strong communities. Please consider joining the Chairman's
      Roundtable with a gift of $1,000. I have enclosed a pledge card for your
      convenience. We would like to announce the success of this year's
      campaign at the Annual Meeting on April 27, so please return you pledge
      or gift within the next 30 days.
      Thank you.
      Sincerely,
      Richard H. Gilbert, Jr. Past Board Member YMCA of Greater
      Indianapolis
      
    
  

  
  
    
      June 6, 2000
      Name Address City, ST Zip
      Dear Name:
      Pat LaCrosse asked me to send this information inviting you to join
      the Georgia O'Keeffe Circle of the Indianapolis Museum of Art's Second
      Century Society (SCS). The SCS brochure I am enclosing will give you the
      historic significance of SCS, as well as listing activities and specific
      benefits awarded to donors at the Georgia O'Keeffe level. Your Georgia
      O'Keeffe membership, please note, includes free admission to all
      art-related activities of the IMA's Young Friends of Art group.
      Additionally, I am sending traditional background materials on the
      Museum and the two latest issues of our Previews Magazine detailing
      upcoming events, exhibitions, and educational programs.
      These are particularly exciting times at the Indianapolis Museum of
      Art: Progress continues on the J.K. Lilly estate-Oldfields, our Ravine
      Garden has been restored to its original splendor, and there is national
      attention showered on our current exhibition of Japanese Painting.
      (please see The New York Times article I have included.) With thousands
      of trees and flowers in bloom, we are having a beautiful Spring!
      Our extraordinary permanent collection, facility, and grounds, we
      understand full well, would not be possible without the philanthropic
      support of civic-minded men and women. In joining SCS, you join the ranks
      of those who believe that bringing art and art education to the city
      makes life better, richer, and more rewarding for the entire
      community.
      A Second Century Society response card and return envelope are
      enclosed. Should you have questions or if I can be of assistance in any
      way, please call me: 317.923.1331, ext. 248.
      Sincerely,
      ARLETTA B.NEWTON Donor Relations Coordinator Enclosures/
      P .S. Both our Barefoot in the Grass family picnic (July 23,2000) and
      the annual SCS Founders Day celebration (October 11,2000) are free for
      Georgia O'Keeffe members. Mark your calendars!
      
    
  

   
      
         
            NEW YORK UNIVERSITY
            
            GRADUATE SCHOOL OF ARTS AND SCIENCE
            
            OFFICE OF THE DEAN
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            Fall 2000
            
            
            
            
            
            Ms. FirstName LastName
            NumberStreetName
            Statename, StateZipCode
            
            Dear Ms. LastName
            
            Over the past year, the Graduate School of Arts and Science has seen record level contributions from its alumni and alumnae to the Schools Annual Fund. This response is a marvelous endorsement of the work of our students, faculty, and staff.
            
            As you read the enclosed Dean 's Report and Request, I hope you will consider how your support of the Graduate Schools Annual Fund shapes the lives of its faculty and students as it makes an impact on the depth and breadth of their NYU experience. Contributions to the Annual Fund help us to prepare our masters students with a thorough knowledge of their discipline, as well as the needed skills for success in the workplace. They enable us to provide students with access to state-of-the-art technology and opportunities to attend professional colloquia, seminars, and conferences on and off campus.
            
            Your support of the Graduate Schools Annual Fund is critical to maintaining the core values of GSAS: rigorous inquiry, the lifelong discovery of ideas, and our commitment to the ethics of scholarship. We also hope you have been able to follow the public education campaign for our masters programs in The New York Times and elsewhere, a sign of our belief in them. Your gift reinforces our emphasis on these ideals that have distinguished the Graduate School of Arts and Science as a preeminent center for advanced learning since 1886.
            
            I am grateful for your continued partnership in our pursuit of these shared values. With best wishes,
            
            
            
            Catharine R. Stimpson
            Dean
            
            
            
            
            
            
            GRADUATE SCHOOL OF ARTS AND SCIENCE
      
   

   
      
         
            APPALACHIAN MOUNTAIN CLUB members take recreation time seriously and know the importance of good trail information. Here are four packages with our most popular titles for you at incredibly low prices.
            (Retail value: $40.85) Holiday Price $29.95
            
            
            
            
            For getting in touch with nature Maine cant be beatits an outdoors lovers paradise! From seaside trails in Acadia National Park to Baxter Parks vast wilderness, youll encounter a host of wildlife, untrammeled hiking trails rimmed with towering pine, and more than 100 crystal-clear lakes, ponds, and thundering rivers.
            AMCs Quiet Water Canoe Guide: Maine offers a chance to experience unspoiled quiet places, to observe wildlife in their natural habitat, to paddle and completely unwind.
            When you hit the trail, AMC Maine Mountain Guide and AMC Guide to Mount Desert Island and
            Included in your gift set:
            AMC Maine Mountain Guide, 7th edition
            AMC Guide to Mount Desert Island and Acadia National Park
            Quiet Water Canoe Guide: Maine
            (Retail value: $43.85)Holiday Price $29.95
            
            
            New Hampshire Family Recreation Kit
            
            Take two of our most popular Nature Walks guides, add a Quiet Water Canoe Guide and you have the makings for an unforgettable family vacation in New Hampshire! Now is your chance to get a great discount on Nature Walks in the New Hampshire Lakes Regionthe latest addition to our Nature Walks seriesand Nature Hikes in the White Mountains. These guides are perfect for your family day hikestheyre pocket-size, full of helpful information such as what to wear and how to prepare, and the highlights chart makes choosing a walk easy
            Kids love to paddle, and the expertly Water Canoe Guide: New Hampshire/Vermont is family oriented and easy to use. It includes detailed maps and photographs; camping and picnicking information; driving, parking, and canoe put-in instructions; illustrated nature essays; tips on safety and equipment. Find a nearby hidden gem and start planning your next weekend or family vacation with all three superlative guides.
            
            
            Included in your gift set:
            Nature Hikes in the White Mountains
            Nature Walks in the New Hampshire Lakes Region
            Quiet Water Canoe Guide: New Hampshire/Vermont
            (Retail value: $38.85)
            Holiday Price $29.95
            You can spend a lifetime in New York City and miss out on the remarkable abundance of green space throughout
            the metropolitan area. And in New York state there are even more adventuresgreat paddling destinations from Long Island to the Adirondacks. The key is knowing where to go.
            
            
            Membership in a Bottle!
            The definitive gift of friendship for any AMC member to give. Its a starter kit to sharing the outdoors. Your friends will love you for it and youll be helping AMC and its stewardship of the environment with each gift you give. Membership in a Bottle includes:
            32-oz. loop-top Nalgene water bottle
            12-month AMC individual membership
            York by land or by water. The authors of Nature Walks and Quiet Water have checked out countless locations, culling the best so you dont have to take a long drive to a disappointing hike or paddleyou can rely on their reporting to guarantee a great trip every time.
            
            
            Induded in your gift set:
            Nature walks in and around New York City
            Quiet Water Canoe Guide: New York
            
            (Retail value: $28.90) Holiday Price $19.95
            
            
            
      
   

   
      
         
            
            PLEASE ACCEPT THE ENCLOSED TEMPORARY
            MEMBERSHIP CARD. IT AUTHORIZES YOU TO
            START ENJOYING AMCS OUTDOOR ACTIVITIES
            IMMEDIATELY!
            
            
            
            
            Dear Outdoor Enthusiast:
            
            The Appalachian Mountain Club is looking for men, women, and children who share our love of the outdoorsand our commitment to preserving our regions natural beauty for future generations.
            
            Please use your Temporary Membership Card to Join the Club. And join the fun while making a real difference for the environment!
            
            You name itweve got it!
            
            Our roots are in hiking. And our roots go deep. When the AMC was founded, Grant was president and Bell was about to make his first phone call. Only 50 million people lived in a country where Colorado had just become its 39th state.
            
            Our members participate in virtually every Earth-friendly outdoor activity you can name!
            
            From beginners to experts, they are into hiking, camping, and backpacking.. .cross-country skiing and snowshoeing... rock climbing and mountaineering.. .canoeing, kayaking and bicycling.. .nature photography and birdwatching. . .and relaxing alongside nature.
            
            Our mission is great
            
            With our volunteers, we maintain 1,400 miles of trails. We provide overnight shelters (including the famous AMC Mountain Huts) to more than 80,000 hikers annually.
            
            We built our first hut more than 100 years ago in New Hampshires northern Presidential Range, and we helped protect the White Mountains so that they are still open to you now. Today our unique network of 10 huts and lodgeseach a days hike apartstretches 56 miles through the White Mountain National Forest. And we offer the same hospitality atop beautiful Mt. Greylock in the Berkshires.
            
            Were partnering with agencies and other organizations to introduce inner-city youth to the fun of the outdoors in Boston, Philadelphia, and New York City. Were helping to develop
            
            Over, please
            
            APPALACHIAN MOUNTAIN CLUB
            Five Joy Street  Boston, Massachusetts 02108-1490  (617) 523-0636
            the Northern Forest Canoe Trail, from Old Forge, New York, to Fort Kent, Maine. Were helping to protect the Sterling Forest in New York. And were working with the National Park Service in upgrading the trail system in the Delaware Water Gap and Acadia National Park in Maine.
            
            Were determined to conserve the Northern Forest of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont and New York, as well as the White and Berkshire ranges, and the countryside surrounding the Appalachian Trail. Were working to keep our air clean and healthy, our waterfalls clear, our rivers running free, and recreational activities open.
            
            Here in the Northeast, we hold stewardship of a precious portion of planet Earth. Contained within it are more than 100 species of trees.. .more than 2,000 species of plants and flowers! Plus all the birds and animals of the forests and the fish of our rivers and lakes.
            
            Were committed to preserving a healthy environment that sustains us all. 
            
            The Call of the Wild
            
            Despite centuries of neglectwildlife still abounds in the 12 states where we are active. Even black bears are making a comeback! Shouldnt you?
            
            Shouldnt you watch hawks and ravens soar below you at AMCs Lakes of the Clouds mountain hut perched 5,000 ft. high on Mt. Washingtons slope?
            
            Shouldnt you canoe and hike along the Deerfield, Connecticut, and Androscoggin Riversseeing some of the Northeast regions most beautiful scenery?
            
            Shouldnt you learn the art of photographing subtle winter light? Build an igloo? Drive a dogsled? Climb a frozen waterfall?
            
            Shouldnt you learn ways to protect the environment while you are enjoying it? Wouldnt you like to? You can.
            
            Why not come backpacking and overnight camping with AMC? We have groups for every level of expertise and programs for all seasons.
            Why not come horseback riding with AMC in the Catskillsexploring the foothills and spending the night at a campsite?
            
            Bring binoculars. Prowl for owls. Listen to loons.
            
            Bring binoculars for the annual warbler migration. Join a nocturnal owl prowl. Spend
            two days camping, canoeing, and watching the wildlife on Connecticuts Housatonic
            River. Spend a weekend bushwhacking with map and compass near our Pinkham Notch Lodge. Take a four-mile canoe trip to northern New Hampshires only bald eagle nesting
            
            site in the Lake Umbagog National Wildlife Refuge that we helped form. Explore the evolution of the Presidential Range, on a four-day geological trek.
            
            Thank Mother Nature by giving something back!
            
            Join fellow AMC volunteers who protect and preserve our extensive northeastern trail networkincluding major sections of the Appalachian Trail.
            
            YOULL HAVE THE TIME OF YOUR LIFEbut sign up early! Berths for AMCs volunteer projects go fast. Last year more than 1,000 members contributed more than 70,000 hours to our challenging and rewarding pro bono activities, in cooperation with state and municipal agencies, and other nonprofit groups that share our goals.
            
            Indulge yourself
            
            Pursue your special interests or prepare yourself for a variety of recreational activities and/or conservation projects by attending an AMC Workshop:
            
            TRAVERSE THE PEAKS of the Presidential Range. Stay overnight in your cozy bunk surrounded by wilderness. Experience the most breathtaking views of the White Mountain National Forest.
            
            BRING THE KIDS to Lonesome Lake Hut. There are daily activities and guided hikes for the whole family.
            
            ISLE-HOP the Maine Coast. Explore Penobscot Bay by canoe. Camp out on isolated islands. Experience the peace and beauty of coastal rhythms.
            
            SIGN UP FOR a hut-to-hut vacation packagefor your whole family, or yourself alone. Hike between our Greenleaf, Galehead, Zealand Falls, and Mizpah Spring Huts, and experience the beauty of the mountains and hospitality of the huts.
            
            EXPLORE the Northern Forest. Choose from a number of hikes from easy walking to challenging. Learn about the natural history, forest management practices, and environmental issues that affect the Northern Forest.
            
            Breaking the ice is easy
            
            Regional chapters from Maine to Washington, D.C., play a key role in introducing you to the activities and opportunities of AMC membership.
            
            Chapter leaders arrange hiking and bicycling trips and teach the basics of cross-country skiing, whitewater and flatwater canoeing, and other outdoor skills. Chapter members
            
            
            
            participate in local conservation efforts, trail work, field trips, and outings. AMC publications are maps for your enjoyment
            
            Your tax-deductible Membership includes a subscription to AMC Outdoors, the magazine of the Appalachian Mountain Club. Published 10 times a year, each issue is crammed with dates and detailed descriptions of AMC activities. Hundreds and hundreds of them every monthmany at chapters near your home.
            
            Well tell you where to go for outdoor fun and keep you informed of the crucial issues affecting our mountain environment.
            
            In addition to Event Calendars of regularly scheduled workshops, clinics, day trips, overnight expeditions, and family programs, AMC Outdoors lists state-by-state chapter activitiesplus notices of everything from neighborhood walks to day rides, from weekend getaways to whale-watching excursions.
            
            We also publish a wide range of books, maps, and trail guides. We have the largest and broadest library of outdoor publications in the Northeast of interest to you.
            
            And your membership entitles you to discounts on all of the above.
            
            AMC is dedicated to protecting the mountains, trails, and rivers throughout our region and near your home. Our mission is to protect the environment through responsible citizen use and enjoyment of the outdoorsthat means your use, your enjoyment.
            
            May we look for the enclosed AMO Membership Acceptance with your tax-deductible contribution by return mail?
            
            Please join us in enjoying and protecting our special corner of planet Earth today.
            
            Sincerely,
            
            
            
            
            
            Andrew J. Falender
            Executive Director
            
            P.S. And please feel free to use your Temporary Membership Card while we are processing your application. I hope its just the push you need to get outdoors.
            
            P.P.S. Check out our website at www.outdoors.org for up-to-date information and hot tips on where to go, what to do, and what to take!
      
   

   
      
         
            THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
            
            424 East 92nd StreetLarry M. HawkNew York, NY 10128President/CEO
            www.aspca.org
            
            
            
            His belly was empty. So empty it hurt.
            At least Astro could drink water from a puddle
            near the stake he was chained to. But then
            the puddle dried up. Astro had only a few days to live.
            
            
            Dear Friend:
            
            As you read my letter, somewhere -- perhaps not far from you --someone is inflicting pain on an innocent animal ... an animal like Astro.
            
            You may not be able to rescue that particular animal. But you CAN join the crusade to stop animal abuse and neglect, by making a generous contribution to the ASPCA today.
            
            I have sent you the enclosed complimentary name-and-address labels to call your attention to the work of the ASPCA. Please USE them on your correspondence to help get our name in front of as many people as possible. Because the ASPCA -- and the thousands of animals we help every year --need all the friends we can get!
            
            As a person who cares about animals, youre probably anxious to know what happened to Astro. A neighbor reported Astros plight to the ASPCA and our Humane Law Enforcement officers went to investigate.
            
            When our officers arrived, Astro was too weak to even stand up. The officers knelt down slowly, speaking gently to the emaciated dog.
            
            Then they saw it. Astro was wagging his tail. He was barely moving. but yes -- the poor, sick dog was saying. Welcome, friends!
            
            The officers brought Astro to the ASPCAs Bergh Memorial Animal Hospital. The dog weighted only 45 pounds -- less than half of what a dog his size should weigh -- and he had several infections. But with first-rate medical attention and tender care from ASPCA staff, he slowly got well again.
            
            Stories like Astros are all too common. Every day, the ASPCA gets reports of animal cruelty, abuse, and neglect. Every day, our officers rescue animals like Sammy, a 10-month-old kitten who was deliberately thrown from a high-rise window by teenagers.
            
            In a world where cruelty is common, animals like Sammy and Astro desperately need friends like you. That is why I have written to you -- to ask you to support the ASPCA today.
            
            Our vital anti-cruelty efforts are just part of the ASPCA mission. We also find loving adoptive homes for rescued animals ... provide first-rate veterinary care through our Bergh Memorial Animal Hospital ... offer low-cost spay and neuter programs for cats and dogs ... reach out to children, teachers, and parents through our Education Programs.
            
            And we dont stop there. The ASPCA pushes for the passage and strengthening of anti-cruelty laws, so that crimes against animals will be treated with the seriousness they deserve.
            
            Since the ASPCA was founded in 1866 as America s first humane society, ending cruelty has been our primary goal. Today, over 130 years later, the scope of the problem is greater than ever.
            
            The ASPCA urgently needs your help to push back the tide of violence against animals. The task is too large for the ASPCA to handle without emergency assistance from dedicated friends. That is why Im asking you to join the ASPCA today with your gift of $20 or more if at all possible.
            
            Your contribution will help us rescue more animals like Astro ... make sure the perpetrators of cruelty are brought to justice ... nurse abused animals back to health and find them loving adoptive homes. Please help the ASPCA with your most generous gift today -- the animals are counting on you.
            
            Sincerely,
            
            
            
            Hawk, DVM
            and CEO
            
            
            P.S.We found Astro a wonderful adoptive home. He is the pride and joy of this loving family! But thousands more animals are in peril of losing their lives -- you can help the ASPCA reach out to them by returning the enclosed reply form with your gift today. Please accept the enclosed name stickers as our gift to you and use them to spread the word about the ASPCA and the animals we help -- thank you.
            
            
            A financial report is available from the Office of the Attorney General by writing the Charities Bureau, 120 Broadway New York, NY 10271.
            
            
            2/00 
         
      
   

   
      
         
            AT&T 
            ClassicGoldPlatinum
            
            
            Dear Cardmember:
            
            Were pleased to send you the enclosed AT&T Universal Card to replace your current card. Please destroy your old card and begin using your new card as of the valid date printed on your new card. Please see your card carrier for additional information and instructions.
            
            Delivering your new card gives us an opportunity to remind you how were delivering more ways to make your card more useful. Weve made your card easier to use with features you can customize yourself more valuable with special savings programs.
            
            Convenience features
            
            AT&T Calling Card feature Use your card to make local, long distance, even international calls from virtually any phone. Simply dial 1 800 CALL ATT and follow the recorded instructions.
            
            Account Online View your statement, see unbilled activity or pay your bill on the Internet. Look for the Instant Access Code on your statement, then go to www.universalcard.com and follow the instructions.
            
            AutoPay EFT Payments Skip writing checks and have your payment made electronically from your bank account each month. Enroll on Internetor call Customer Service for details.
            
            Personalized features
            
            Cycle Date You can time your statement and payments to coincide with convenient times of the month by choosing your billing cycle date.
            
            Personal Identification Number (PIN) Choose your own PIN to use for cash access and calling.
            
            Calling Card Number Choose your own calling card number too, to make calling easier.
            
            Save on calls with the AT&T One Rate Calling Card Plan.
            
            If you havent already enrolled, sign up for this plan that saves you money on your AT&T Universal Card calls. You get the low rate of 25 cents a minute anytime, anywhere in the U.S. on all your AT&T Universal Card calls when you make the call yourself by dialing 1 800 CALL ATT. To enroll, call 1 800 741-9302. The low, $1 monthly access fee will be conveniently billed to your account.
            
            For more information on any of these features, call us at 1 800 423-4343. Thank you for carrying the AT&T Universal Card. We look forward to continuing to provide you with a card that grows with you through the years ahead.
            
            Sincerely,
            
            
            
            A
            Mark Gilder
            Vice President, Marketing
            Universal Card Services Corp.
            
            
            Calls made from payphones are subject to a surcharge. AT&Ts surcharge is up tp $30 per call.
            
            20% POST CONSUMER WASTE
         
      
   

   
      
         
            
            
            Im outraged ... and I think you will be, too!
            
            Just imagine finding your favorite hiking trail or birding area littered with dead birds -- among the hundreds of thousands of unsuspecting and innocent creatures who were unlucky enough to consume lethal doses of a slow-acting poison spread in fields miles away.
            
            And who plans to commit such a mass bird killing?
            
            The U.S. Department of Agriculture!
            
            In fact, the USDA has plans to spread poisoned rice in sunflower fields throughout the northern Great Plains targeting two million migrating blackbirds and threatening nearly 70 other bird species.
            
            its almost unthinkable that a program this reckless could be implemented -- in view of the tragic impact that poisonous chemicals and pesticides like DDT have had on wildlife and people.
            
            Thanks to the help of caring and concerned people like you, Audubon won a temporary halt to this planned killing last spring -- but the USDAs plans could be up and running for the next blackbird migration, unless we act now.
            
            Let me tell you exactly whats at stake ... and how this could set a dangerous precedent: First of all, you might wonder why blackbirds are not benefiting from the Migratory Bird Treaty Acts prohibition against actions that cause intentional harm.
            
            You see, the USDA found a loophole allowing these protections to be lifted for experimental activities.
            
            So they applied for the right to spread poison as Dart of a scientific experiment -- to learn whether lowering the population of blackbirds by poisoning them will reduce sunflower crop loss.
            
            Can you believe it? The USDA wants to conduct an experiment that will spread enough poison in our environment to kill two million blackbirds.
            
            And if the death of two million birds doesnt prove their theory -- and show a reduction in crop loss -- theyll likely seek the right to kill even more birds the next year!
            
            Its time to tell the USDA, in no uncertain terms:
            
            YOU WILL NOT CONDUCT MASSIVE BIRD KILLS
            
            TO BENEFIT A HANDFUL OF SPECIAL INTERESTS!
            
            Because the USDAs slow-acting pesticide takes three days to kill, its victims will likely fly many miles from the poisoned fields, before falling to the ground.
            
            Meanwhile,blackbirds arent the only birds threatened directly by the poison. Weve noted the presence of 68 other species of grassland songbirds in the proposed poison-baited areas ... including the Bobolink, Grasshopper Sparrow, Harris Sparrow and Le Contes Sparrow.
            
            In all, nine birds on the Federal threatened or endangered lists and 11 birds on Audubons WatchList of imperiled species could be found in these killing fields.
            
            We simply cannot afford to let the government repeat the mistakes of the past ... and operate this deadly and uncontrolled experiment on wildlife.
            
            Heres what I need you to do, to make sure we prevail: First, I need you to sign and return your Petition to the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture.
            
            Ill forward your Petition, along with those from thousands of other Audubon members and supporters, urging the USDA to withdraw its cruel plan to poison blackbirds ... in favor of alternative, benign methods of protecting sunflower crops.
            
            I can assure you that thousands of Audubon Petitions can make a difference -- just as they did in a successful battle against an adverse wetlands proposal a few years ago!
            
            But todays battle is one we must win ... to block a dangerous experiment that would begin to erase 50 years of steady progress eliminating pesticides and other harmful chemicals from our environment.
            
            Thats why I hope youll also agree to help even more by making a tax-deductible gift to support this crucial initiative and all of Audubons vital conservation work to protect birds, other wildlife and habitat. And with a donation of $15 or more, youll receive a FREE Birdfeeder in appreciation for your concern.
            
            Ill make sure your gift is put right to work in our efforts to:
            
            Win a ban on the USDA bird poisoning.
            Gain strict enforcement of wildlife laws.
            Ensure wildlife programs are based on sound science.
            Monitor the health of Audubons WatchList species.
            Conserve Americas remaining grassland habitat.
            
            And Audubon will draw upon its century-long track record of highly effective conservation work to make a real difference in other key areas:
            
            Audubon protects birds. Your help will be instrumental to our bird conservation work: designating Important Bird Areas to protect vital habitat ... maintaining the WatchList of bird species near endangered status (www.audubon.org/ bird/watch) ... and engaging citizen participation in the vast BirdSource database of North American bird trends.
            
            Audubon rescues endangered wildlife. Nearly 25 years ago, the National Audubon Society helped win passage of the Endangered Species Act. With your help, Audubon will remain committed to wildlife laws and regulations that are well funded, properly implemented, and strongly enforced.
            
            Audubon establishes and protects wildlife refuges and sanctuaries. Audubon is truly making a difference for wildlife refuges everywhere says U.S. Fish and Wildlife official Rick Coleman. And your support will help sustain our innovative Audubon Refuge Keepers program, and maintain our own network of more than 100 wildlife centers and sanctuaries.
            
            Audubon restores wetlands. Wetlands are not only crucial to wildlife ... they also help purify our drinking water and prevent billions of dollars worth of flood damage. Your gift today will help us reach our goal to restore one million acres of irreplaceable wetlands.
            
            Audubon educates the public. Teaching Americans --particularly young people -- how to become better stewards of our environment is one of the best investments that you and I can make for wildlife. Thats why were expanding our network of Audubon Centers to reach children and adults in every corner of the nation.
            
            And of course, your support will enable Audubon to stand ready to act whenever a wildlife crisis emerges
            --like the USDAs bird poisoning proposal that Im asking you to help us defeat today!
            
            So let me urge you to do your part by supporting a group that the San Francisco Chronicle calls one of Americas most respected and influential conservation organizations.
            
            First,sign and return your Petition to the Secretary of Agriculture immediately, to declare a firm and resounding NO! to the USDAs bird poisoning plan.
            
            And I also hope youll take a second important step today, by supporting Audubons vital conservation work with a generous tax-deductible gift. Thank you.
            
            Very truly yours,
            
            
            John Flicker
            President
            
            P.S.Your gift will help us save birds, other wildlife and their habitat for future generations to cherish. And in thanks for your gift of $15 or more, you 11 receive a FREE Birdfeeder. Supplies are limited ... so please respond today!
      
   

   
      
         
         Office of the President
         National Audubon Society
         700 Broadway
         New York, NY 10003-9562
         This morning, I closed my office door to interruptions, sat alone at my desk, and did something 
         I think will please you and everyone in your home.
         Dear Former Member,
         When we lose a member like you, it hurts.. .all of us.
         So this morning I sat down and thought about what it would take for you to give us a second chance. I thought about our 
         new, enhanced local efforts, our expanding scientific research and educational programs, our fresh new writing in AUDUBON magazine.
         Then I thought about an enticing way for you to regain your place among Americas most intelligent, concerned and caring citizens who proudly avow membership in the National Audubon Society.
         Im inviting you back to full membership for just $17 - 51% off the regular rate.
         By accepting my personal invitation, youll provide yourself and every member of your family with a fulfilling sense of proprietorship, and a steady flow of priceless enjoyment.
         Youll once again be enthralled by the striking photography and insightful environmental journalism that makes our exclusive magazine, AUDUBON, a treasure worth saving. Its already won the prestigious National Magazine Award not once, but four times. __
         This award-winning style is evident in every issue with behind-the-headlines reporting, passionate coverage of the environment, exotic journeys to remote places you may never otherwise experience, and of course, in AUDUBONs famous photography of natures most awe-inspiring creations.
         Bring beauty, mystery, adventure and the natural world back in your life.
         You may have missed learning the mysteries of the spectacled eider (a duck with an uncertain future) ... missed traveling with us to Asia where we found and followed the last wild tigers... missed marveling at the magic of mangroves.. missed discovering in Peru the newest bird known to science, the barbet.. .but you wont miss a thing anymore.
         Ive had a look at the magazines upcoming subjects and I can tell you the best is yet to come. From what I see, the magazines editorial staff and fresh new look and content may soon be granted a fifth National Magazine Award.
         Theres much more to membership than AUDUBON magazine!
         Youll be protecting, preserving and promoting Americas wetlands, endangered species, ancient forests, our National Wildlife Refuges, the Everglades and the Platte River, our Living Oceans Program and much more.
         Youll be supporting sanctuaries, field research, environmental education and legislation and many other vital efforts critical to the protection of wildlife and their habitats. Youll also be educating youngsters in 15,000 schools across America  most likely some in your own school district.
         By accepting my special invitation to join again, youll receive special invitations to our sanctuaries and Ecology Camps  and FREE ADMISSION to our Nature Centers. There, youll have the rewarding opportunity to study with Audubon experts and take part in workshops of special interest to you.
         Whats more, youll receive FREE MEMBERSHIP in your local chapter -there are more than 500 Audubon chapters nationwide  with access to field trips and activities everyone in your family will enjoy.
         Theres still more. Special travel opportunities, and special (FREE!) membership in the Audubon Activist Network will also be yours.
         Incredibly, all this is possible for just 517.
         Think of all the ways everyone in your household will benefit from your membership in Audubon. And then, please, take advantage of this opportunity to regain full membership for 51% less than the regular rate.
         We simply cant afford to lose you. May we become partners once again? Ill be waiting for your reply.
         Sincerely,
         John Flicker
         P.S. On behalf of everyone here at the National Audubon Society, we look forward to saying, Welcome back! All of us are excited about sending you your magazine and membership materials. In advance, please accept my personal Thank you!
         P.P.S.	As an added gesture of appreciation, Ill also send you our binoculars -- FREE -- with your permanent membership.
         
      
   

   
      
         
         ALASKA EMERGENCY
         Dear Defender,
         Look closely at this photo, and youll see a wolf ... running. Soon this wolf wont be merely running in the snow.
         This wolf will be running for its life!
         The airplane above will be tracking her ... in order to land and immediately gun her down .
         
         You see, the Alaska legislature passed a law that once again allows any private citizen with just a $15 trapping or $25 hunting license to track wolves by aircraft and then land and gun them down. This cruel, unethical wolf-hunting practice is called same-day airborne land-and-shoot.
         It was a total shock and surprise.
         In May the Alaska legislature voted to reinstate same-day airborne wolf killing. Frankly, we never thought Alaskas anti-wolf politicians would go this far. But they did, overriding Governor Tony Knowles veto  and ignoring the will of the majority of Alaskas citizens.
         Unfortunately, this practice will begin after the first snow ... this September ... when wolves will be cant-miss targets against Alaskas snowy terrain. Wolves can run fast  but they certainly cant outrun airplanes.
         Given the urgency of the situation in Alaska, Defenders needs your immediate assistance to help save Alaskas wolves from same-day airborne land-and-shoot slaughter.
         Support the Emergency Effort to Save Alaskas Wolves.
         
         Defenders hopes to raise at least $100,000 to help Alaskans For Wildlife, a coalition of Alaska citizens, win a citizens ballot initiative this November. And we face very wealthy opponents. So today, I urge you to do these two things:
         FIRST: Sign the enclosed Citizens Advisory Ballot to show our Alaska allies your strong personal support to reinstate the ban on same-day airborne
         land-and-shoot wolf killing in Alaska;
         SECOND: Rush an urgent donation to help put this measure on the ballot and win passage in November.
         The Alaska Legislature is completely out of step with the will of Alaskas citizens and the American public at large.
         Like you, the majority of Alaskans oppose same-day land-and-shoot wolf killing. But the anti-wolf politicians in the Alaska legislature dont care what the majority of Alaska citizens want. And they didnt listen to the recommendations of the Alaska Department of Fish and Game, which opposed this legislation!
         They are utterly out of step with their Alaska constituents ... the state agency that manages Alaska wildlife ... and the rest of the American public!
         In the name of wolf control, wolf killers will predictably once again use aircraft to hunt wolves to the point of exhaustion, so that the wolves have, literally, no chance of survival.
         And if history is any guide, over the years thousands of Alaskas wolves will be brutally killed.
         Before the 1996 ban on same-day land-and-shoot, as many as 400 wolves were killed in Alaska each year because of this barbaric and unethical practice.
         Anti-wolf interests are prepared to spend hundreds of thousands of dollars to make sure that the new land-and-shoot law stands  even though most Alaskans do not support it.
         So if we dont act right now, Alaskas snowy tundras will once again become bloody killing fields for wolves in Americas Last Frontier.
         Say NO to the barbaric practice of same-day airborne wolf killing.
         The only way Alaskans can repeal the new law and reinstate the ban on same-day airborne land-and-shoot wolf killing is with a Citizens Referendum.
         Thats why your special financial support is so important  and urgently needed.
         Alaska wolf advocates need your immediate support to save wolves.
         As I mentioned, this new same-day airborne land-and-shoot practice will start in September after the opening of hunting season and the first snow  and when wolves will be an easy target.
         To repeal this unconscionable law, Defenders must help provide our friends in Alaska -- Alaskans For Wildlife  with the resources necessary to win at the polls in November.
         Our well-funded opponents will spend whatever it takes to mislead and confuse voters about this ballot measure. We need help to supplement the funds raised by Alaskans For Wildlife for careful polling, the development of voter education spots for television, radio and newspapers, the placement of those ads, and get-out-the-vote efforts on election day.
         If Alaskas new law is not replaced, thousands of Alaska's wolves will die in the years to come.
         And it will be a major setback for wolves nationwide  at a time when the American public overwhelmingly favors wolf reintroduction and protection. A loss will encourage those anti-wolf fanatics who want to stop wolf restoration and put bounties on those wolves already in the wild.
         So, please dont wait another minute.
         Please sign your Citizens Advisory Ballot to demonstrate to our Alaska allies that youre behind them; and send an urgent donation today to help them win this effort.
         So how will your money be spent?
         Heres the projected budget breakdown:
         $35,000  in-depth, state-wide survey conducted by a top pollster to determine voters positions on the ballot measure and arguments that will help persuade undecided voters.
         $45,000  salaries /office expenses for staff to oversee the effort between now and election day.
         $30,000  production of television and radio spots alerting the public to the findings of the above survey.
         $100,000  placement of voter education spots in the key media including print, radio and television. Money must be in hand by mid-August to reserve time for September and October!
         $15,000  election day get-out-the-vote drive, including phone calls to get voters to the polls.
         You stood by Defenders when we defeated the wealthy American Farm Bureau in court and saved the lives of the wolves in Yellowstone National Park and central Idaho.
         Now, Im hoping I can count on your moral and financial support again today. to help save Alaskas wolves from same-day airborne land-and-shoot killing.
         Your special donation today is absolutely critical, because many of Alaskas politicians clearly have anti-wolf agendas. They have the financial backing of powerful special interests and the determination to ignore the will of the people of Alaska and the American public.
         Please let Alaskans know that youre behind them. Let them know you share their concern about protecting Alaskas wolves.
         Please help save Alaskas wolves by doing these two things:
         1. SIGN the enclosed Citizens Advisory Ballot to show your support
         for repealing same-day airborne land-and-shoot wolf killing in Alaska;
         2. RUSH a special donation to help our Alaska allies overturn this odious new law.
         Remember, for this emergency effort to succeed, we must act immediately.
         So, please take out your pen right now and sign your absentee ballot. And then, mail it back to us along with your emergency donation to help save Alaskas wolves.
         Thank you for your strong support.
         Sincerely,
         Rodger Schlickeisen
         President
         P.S.:	Defenders needs your help to raise $100,000 in emergency funds to help ensure that the coalitions Emergency Effort to Save Alaskas Wolves succeeds. So, please sign the
         enclosed Citizens Advisory Ballot to lend your moral support to our Alaska friends and return it in the enclosed envelope with a special donation. Time is so short.
      
      
   




For The Blind, Inc.
371 EASIJERICHO TURNPIKE, SMITHIOWN, NEW YORK 11787-2976
Its people like you who make it possible to give the priceless gift of 
Second Sight . 
Dear Friend,
Think what it would be like to live in a world of dark shapes and shadows where you
never know what to expect; to feel afraid to go places, to be hesitant about every
step you take. For too many, this is a daily reality  but today you can help make a
difference.
Having a guide dog allows a blind or visually impaired individual to experience the
possibilities of life, not the limitations.
It costs over $20,000 to breed, care for and train a guide dog like Duke and to
train his blind teammate. We use Labrador Retrievers, Golden Retrievers and a cross
between Labs and Goldens. Male and female dogs are used. And our dogs are specially
bred for temperament and physical soundness.
Every Foundation guide dog is given free of charge to someone who is blind or
visually impaired.
We are supported entirely by donations from generous individuals, corporations and
foundations. We receive no government funding.
The only way we can continue to provide guide dogs, at no cost, to someone who is
blind or visually impaired, is through your support.

Friends like you make it possible to give the gift of Second Sight. I hope the
Foundation can count on your caring donation today. Many people send gifts of $35,
$50, or even $100 or more  whatever you are able to give to help
maintain this vital service.

And having a guide dog does make a real difference in the lives of our students. Its
the special bond  of a loving and working 24 hour a day partnership.
As a boy in Bosnia, I walked my dog. Now my guide dog, Franklin, walks me says
Sead. He was blinded at 15 by a Serbian missile. After I got my beautiful black Lab,
I finally felt like a human being again. Now I believe almost anything is possible.
Franklin has opened up a whole new world for me. A world I thought I would never have
again.
As Pat explains, Both my friends were zipping through crowds while I lagged behind,
even though I was a fast cane walker. I envied their freedom and most of all, the
incredible bond they both had with their guide dogs. With my Lab, Jay, I feel so
wonderfully FREE!
Hank says he was a good cane traveler for 17 years  but felt his freedom was
curtailed particularly when traveling. I had never had a pet. Having Aries just
makes life so much easier. For one thing, people are nicer to you. People love dogs.
They can relate to him and feel they have something to talk to you about.
Our graduates, who are leading active lives assisted by the guide dogs given to them
by the Guide Dog Foundation, include: social workers, teachers, secretaries, policy
makers, college students, musicians, writers, homemakers... mothers and fathers.
As one of our donors in the New York area told us, Sometimes you never see the good
work your money does. I see the results... the guide does Ive helped sponsor
dramatically improve the lives of the men and women who receive them.
Wont you please take the time now to send your donation to give someone the
priceless gift of independence?
Sincerely,
Wells B. Jones
Chief Executive Officer
RS. For more information about the Guide Dog Foundation, or to become a Guide Dog
Foundation volunteer, visit our website at www.guidedog.org.




   
      
         
            Dear Friend of Animals,
            
            I hope youll use the enclosed name labels, and colorful pet stickers, designed especially for friends of animals.
            
            Your name -- and the name of The Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) -- are very important to the well-being of all animals because together we can prevent suffering and save lives.
            
            I wish I could tell you that everyone is concerned about protecting earths animals -- dogs, cats, farm animals and wildlife. The sad truth is animal cruelty, abuse and neglect continues at an alarming rate across the nation and even in your own community.
            
            Every day of the year, The Humane Society of the United States receives reports about all kinds of animal cruelties, such as the horrors of the leghold trap; the use of dog and cat fur; needless or repetitive experiments on animals; and the abusive treatment of dogs and cats.
            
            Still others are less obvious but just as horrible; dogs fighting to the death for the benefit of blood thirsty gamblers; baby calves confined and malnourished to provide milk-fed veal for the gourmet; and the accidental drowning of porpoises in the nets of tuna fishermen. And almost 6,000,000 companion pets are put to death in shelters throughout America.
            
            What is even more shocking, is that more than 30 million animals die these cruel, painful deaths each year ... needless deaths that could have been stopped!
            
            And with so much animal cruelty and suffering going on, Im sure you can understand why the work of The Humane Society of the United States is so vitally important and why we need the support of many other people, like you, to help us bring an end to animal suffering, abuse and neglect.
            
            Since 1954, our programs and activities have been aimed at stopping and eliminating all animal abuse and we continue to spend a great deal of time investigating animal cruelty cases and working with the courts to prosecute the guilty parties.
            
            We also work hard and lobby for better animal welfare laws at the local, state and federal government levels and we insist they enforce existing laws to prevent animal cruelty.
            
            Our primary goal, though, has always been to stop the cruel and inhumane treatment of animals before it happens, so we teach the public about the need to protect all animals from suffering, abuse and exploitation.
            
            But while our programs and activities have been successful in reducing animal cruelty, we are constantly faced with new problems of animal suffering which need immediate attention and drain our resources.
            Its a difficult problem, because we have to fight the well-financed and powerful agri-business and research industries, but we do our best to protect the animals.
            
            Right now, the problems are mounting and we need all the help we can get to stop animal cruelty.
            
            And thats where you can help. You can be a lifesaving friend to all animals by telling friends and family about the important work of The HSUS and asking them to become vigilant in safe-guarding the lives of ALL animals.
            
            Today, we are placing special emphasis on pet adoption. I hope you will visit your local animal shelter and consider adopting a dog or cat into your home. Its a wonderful way to enjoy their companionship and save the life of a loving animal, too.
            
            I also hope you will give a big boost to our work to protect all animals by sending a generous tax-deductible donation today. Your gift of at least $5 or $10 or even $15, will help The HSUS save millions of animals.
            
            I know you care deeply for the well-being of all animals. Please help us carry this message to others so that animal cruelty and abuse can be eliminated.
            
            Sincerely,
            
            
            President
            
            P.S. We are totally committed to putting an end to all forms of animal cruelty and neglect. But your help of $5 or $10 or even $15 is absolutely needed today. Please take this moment to be as generous as possible to send your best gift today, and dont forget to use your free colorful pet stickers and name labels enclosed. Thanks in advance.
            
            
            
            
            A COPY OF THE LATEST REGISTRATION AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION FILED BY THE HSUS MAY BE OBTAINED BY CONTACTING THE HSUS, 2100 L ST., NW, WASHINGTON, DC 20037. (202) 452-1100; OR IN FLORIDA A COPY OF THE OFFICIAL REGISTRATION AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION MAY BE OBTAINED FROM THE DIVISION OF CONSUMER SERVICES BY CALLING TOLL FREE 1-800-435-7352 WITHIN THE STATE. REGISTRATION DOES NOT IMPLY ENDORSEMENT, APPROVAL, OR RECOMMENDATION BY THE STATE. In Maryland, for the Cost of copies and postage, the Secretary of State, State House, Annapolis, MD 21401. Mississippi The official registration and financial information of HSUS maybe obtained from the Mississippi Secretary of States office by calling 1-888-236-6167. Registration by the Secretary of State does not imply endorsement by the Secretary of State. NEW JERSEY INFORMATION FILED WITH THE ATTORNEY GENERAL CONCERNING THIS CHARITABLE SOLICITATION MAY BE OBTAINED FROM THE ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE STATE OF NEW JERSEY BY CALLING 973.504.6215. REGISTRATION WITH THE ATTORNEY GENERAL DOES NOT IMPLY ENDORSEMENT. In New York, the Office of the Attorney General, Department of Law, Charities Bureau, 120 Broadway, New York, NY 10271. NORTH CAROLINA-. A COPY OF THE LICENSE TO SOLICIT CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS AS A CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION OR SPONSOR AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION MAY BE OBTAINED FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN RESOURCES, SOLICITATION LICENSING BRANCH, BY CALLING (919) 807.2214. REGISTRATION DOES NOT IMPLY ENDORSEMENT, APPROVAL, OR RECOMMENDATION BY THE STATE. Pennsylvania The official registration and financial information of The Humane Society of the United States may be obtained from the Pennsylvania Department of State by calling toll free, within Pennsylvania, 1-800-732-0999. Registration does not imply endorsement. Virginia State Division of Consumer Affairs, Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services, P0 Box 1163, Richmond, VA 23209; 1-800-552-9963. Washington Charities Division, Office of the Secretary of State, State of Washington, Olympia, WA 98504-0422, 1-800-332-4483. West Virginia Residents may obtain a summary of the registration & financial documents from the Secretary of State, State Capitol, Charleston, WV 25305. Registration does not imply endorsement, approval, or recommendation by any state.
         
      
   

   
      
         
         IFAW
         ANIMAL
         SANCTUARY
         FUND
         Your donation will help give an animal a safe home!
         Dear Ms. LastName
         I wanted to personally write you and give you our 2001 Collectible Calendar and talk about animals in danger - a cause we both care deeply about.
         Please take a moment to look over the enclosed 2001 Animal Sanctuary Calendar. Be sure to write me back to let me know your 2001 Calendar has arrived m good order. Im sure you will want to keep it and prominently display it to enjoy these striking wildlife images.
         Dont you agree that the lion and baby seal are looking right into your eyes? The mother elephant has a watchful eye on her young calf. And if you have ever experienced to sight of a diving dolphin, you will be brought instantly back to that exciting moment when turning to our August image.
         Can you imagine the lion on our calendar cover being cruelly killed for a hunters trophy?
         Can you imagine the baby seal crying out for fear as a sealer raises his club?
         Can you picture the baby elephant and mother with no place safe to rest and find water?
         Many of our critics say that you and I who love animals attribute intelligent and sensitive qualities to stupid, non-feeling animals. But our ability to feel the fear and know the pain that animals experience is no error in judgement nor overblown sentimentalityit is real. It is humane.
         The International Fund for Animal Welfare is one of the largest, most effective animal welfare organizations in the world with a special mission to save animals lives, prevent cruelty, and protect natural habitat for wildlife to live and enjoy life in harmony with man.
         Too, too often, man has not been a good neighbor to animals. Whether we talk about clubbing baby seals to death for their beautiful pelts, or butchering elephants with hacksaws for their ivory, or trapping animals in steel-jaw leghold traps where the pain is so excruciating they have been known to chew off a leg to escape, we stand guard for all animals.
         All animals need a place to get to in order to be safe from bullets, cruelty, traps and clubs.
         IFAW P.O. Box I 93 Yarmouth Port, MA 02615-01 www.lfaw.org
         IFAW is now launching our year 2001 Animal Sanctuary Fund to provide safe places for animals to live out of the danger tat comes from humans and loss of habitat. This is a new, special project that has been expanded into a permanent program.
         Whether it is to fund additional land for the Addo elephant park in South Africa where 29 calves were born this year or our partnership with Future Generations to save vital habitat for moon bears, bengal tigers and other animals, or our response to move orphaned lions to 500 acres of protected African bush where they will live safely for the rest of their lives we are committed to the concept of ANIMAL SANCTUARIES.
         Im positive you agree with this most basic, humane approach. I wont even ask if you support this program. but rather, I must ask how much you can afford to support this Animal Sanctuary Fund today?
         I do not like to ask for money No one does. But money gives us the POWER TO PROTECT AND DEFEND THE VOICELESS.
         Will you please join with me today to help save animals from pain, suffering, hunger, hunting and abuse?
         Your gift will help give an animal a safe home.
         Be absolutely sure, your donations do save lives. For 31 years, our name has been associated throughout the world wit saving innocent animals. Many people know us as the Save the Seals people and we have saved thousands of animals - seals, elephants, cats, dogs, bears, whales. This new program will be a huge success with your help.
         I thought you would enjoy our 2001 Animal Sanctuary Calendar. It is a unique gift to you for taking your time to hear my vision of new safety for the worlds animals and my request for your hard-earned money
         The simple fact is we cannot continue without your generous gifts. Gifts of $100, $25, and $15 all are important to keep our Animal Sanctuary Fund operating.
         Please rush me your generous gift of $100 or $15 today while these endangered animals are on your mind and in your heart.
         Animals dont ask for much of us. All they need is safe homeland and freedom from pain and fear. Your donation today could save a life tomorrow
         For the animals,
         Fred ORegan
         President
         PS. Please enjoy the photographs of the animals you are so generously befriending. And please use the enclosed 2001 Calendar Reply when writing me back.
      
      
   

   
      
         
            
             SAVE A LIFE Little ShelterAND GET OUR33 Warner RoadNEWSLETTERHuntington NY 11743-0830
            
            Dear Ms. LastName
            
            These are the pawprints of a homeless animal; an abandoned animal, shivering with fear, with no place to call home. Where will these pawprints lead?
            With your help they can lead to Little Shelters good food, medical attention and a warm place to sleep for homeless and frightened animals. And then well work to find loving homes for them
            
            You might be wondering how much to send. Our average gift is about $21. If you could give $20 or more, I can promise well use your money to help animals start new, happier lives.
            At this wonderful time of the year, when people are celebrating,
            (Over, please)
            
            The only no-kill shelter thats there when you need us Little Shelter is crowded with animals waiting for homes. It hurts us especially now to see a scrawny dog . . . a wet, starving kitten . homeless animals that would otherwise die if Little Shelter didnt provide the care, treatment and love these animals need. If you could see them, I know you would want to help.
            Your reward will be the wag of a tail youll never see, the soft purr youll never hear -- and the warm joy of knowing you were there to help when you were needed.
            Happy Holidays from all of us!
            
            
            Sincerely,
            
            
            Maryann Chernovsky
            President
            
            P.S. Please accept the enclosed 2001 calendar and gift tags as a special greeting from our animal friends and Little Shelter.
      
   





CENTER FOR MARINE CONSERVATION
Dear Friend,
The enclosed set of name and address labels is a FREE GIFT to you from Americas
leader in protecting our increasingly vulnerable ocean planet -- the Center for
Marine Conservation. I hope you enjoy using them as you correspond with your friends
and family and help us spread the word to protect ocean wildlife.
I hope, too, that they remind you just how much danger these beautiful marine species
and their ocean habitats are in right now!
Even today, after years of public outrage, dolphins continue to die in tuna fisheries
of other countries and are still being cruelly and often illegally killed by gillnets
and harpoons. And now, growing numbers of dolphins with malignant tumors and high
levels of toxic chemicals in their tissues are washing onto U.S. beaches. The cause -
undetermined, but the suspected culprit is pollution poisoning our oceans with toxic
chemicals and sewage.
And thousands of endangered sea turtles and other creatures continue to die each year
unnecessarily due to wasteful fishing and over development, forces that keep these
species in a fragile state.
When it comes to the oceans, people take ... and take ... and take -- without ever
giving.
I trust, however, that you will give back.
A tax-deductible gift from you now of less than a nickel a day can bring
you into the ranks of the most influential and effective marine conservation
organization operating today.
At a price nearly half off the regular membership dues, you will receive a host of
member benefits (more on these in a moment)_and, far more important the satisfaction
of actually doing something to improve the ocean world we pass on to our
children.
The Center for Marine Conservation can put your membership donation to work right
away to protect ocean wildlife, preserve marine habitats and prevent the marine
pollution that poisons our watery planet.
Your nickel a day can, when it joins the stream of other member donations, help stop
water pollution at its source ... protect sea turtle nesting beaches from development
... and defend seals, dolphins, and other ocean wildlife from the threat of
entanglement and drowning in fishing nets and marine debris.
Will your gift really help? Definitely yes!
over, please
1725 DESALES STREET, NW.  WASHFNGTON, DC 20036  www.cmc-ocean.org
Youll be part of a team thats already
convinced Mitsubishi and the Mexican government to abandon plans to build a massive
salt production facility on the shores of critical calving and breeding grounds for
gray whales.
won a major court victory that closed thousands of square miles to U.S. longline
fishing because of its threat to the survival of Pacific leatherback sea turtles.
helped create National Marine Sanctuaries critical to the survival of marine wildlife
-- from endangered manatees in the Florida Keys, to humpback whales off New Englands
Stellwagen Bank, to sea otters in Californias Monterey Bay.
These are prime examples of hard fought victories and critical efforts that are
working to improve the health of our marine environment.
But our programs need your backing.
You can help us spread our message to protect ocean wildlife by using the enclosed
labels on all your correspondence. Also, take a moment to review the practical tips
on the back of the form -- share them with your family and friends --and put them
into action today!
And wont you also please make a tax-deductible contribution of just $15
--or more if you are able -- to help save the dolphins, whales, sea turtles,
and other amazing marine creatures who so desperately need support from all of us
these days!
At the same time, youll receive CMCs benefit-packed New Member Welcome Kit ... a
free subscription to our exciting full-color quarterly newsletter, Marine
Conservation News ... more steps you can take to protect our oceans regular
legislative updates and action alerts ... and an official membership card.
All that for less than a nickel a day -- an amount you really cant afford not to
spend. Please let me hear from you now.

Sincerely
P.S. Of course, your personalized labels are a gift, yours to keep whether or not you
choose to join us. But think how much you -- and your loved ones who share this
watery planet of ours -- stand to gain if you join. Isnt that really worth at least
a nickel a day?
P.P.S. And, if you are able to send a gift of $15 or more, as a special new member
bonus, Ill send you our exclusive dolphin tote bag. Its made of navy cotton canvas,
features three playful dolphins, and its a great way to show your support and
protect the marine environment.




   
      
         
         NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION
         8925 Leesburg Pike
         Vienna, VA 22184-0002
         November 3, 2000
         Dear Friend of Wildlife,
         I hope you will be pleasantly surprised -- and delighted -- with the enclosed National Wildlife Wrapping Paper Collection and matching gift tags.
         They are our gift to you to keep and use on your holiday packages in thanks for considering this important appeal for wildlife.
         The wrapping paper and matching gift cards feature delightful holiday wildlife images that will come in handy for wrapping your last minute presents. These images will be cheerful reminders to you and your gift recipients of all the wildlife treasures we value.
         During this holiday season, we must not forget the wildlife species that depend on us for their survival. When you use the attractive wrapping paper and gift tags, you will be helping us spread the word about saving Americas wildlife treasures and their habitat.
         While you are under no obligation for these small tokens of appreciation, we do hope that they will remind you to do your part in our conservation effort on behalf of all wildlife and wild places by...
         accepting this special invitation to join National Wildlife Federation as our newest member.
         Im sure youve heard of us either directly or by our publications and activities. We are one of Americas largest and most successful conservation and education groups. Ever hear of Ranger Rick the famous childrens wildlife magazine? Thats us!
         
            Ranger Rick is just one of our many wildlife publications. We also publish Your Big Backyard and Wild Animal Baby. And were famous for distributing the one magazine in America thats been called the worlds most beautiful nature magazine, the award-winning NATIONAL WILDLIFE.
         
         As a member youll play a role in educating millions of Americans  young and old alike  through these outstanding wildlife publications and many other related activities such as distributing Wildlife Week materials to millions of American schoolchildren each year.
         (over, please...)
         For more than 60 years, caring and concerned wildlife lovers like yourself have supported our mission to educate, inspire and assist individuals and organizations to conserve wildlife and other natural resources and to protect the earths environment in order to achieve a peaceful, equitable and sustainable future. Thats what its all about securing a place for wildlife in the modern world.
         Today you have the opportunity to join this successful cause by becoming a member of NWF for as little as $15
            . Besides having the satisfaction of knowing that you are doing your part to help save our wildlife heritage, you will also receive some outstanding benefits of membership including:
         A one-year subscription to our beautiful full color magazine, NATIONAL WILDLIFE.
         
         Attractive wildlife stamps, calendars and cards.
         An official membership card and decal.
         Through the colorful pages of NATIONAL WILDLIFE you will be fascinated by exquisite photography from some of the best nature photographers in the world. Our magazine is a great way to stay informed on the current issues affecting wildlife and see what NWF is doing to find solutions to these problems. And youll enjoy a series of insightful stories on a variety of wildlife species stories that cant be found anywhere else!
         As an added welcome gift, we will send you an exclusive NWF tote bag. When you use it in place of plastic bags you help conserve our natural resources. The tote bag is made of a strong, cotton material and has plenty of room, including a handy sewn-in pocket. And its a great way to show your commitment to conservation every day.
         We are constantly working in every part of the country to save those species and special places that are in all of our minds. Here are some of the projects in the forefront at NWF right now:
         Working to improve the water quality and water flow in the Florida Everglades so
         magnificent creatures like the gentle manatee can survive.
         Reintroducing the grizzly bear into the Selway-Bitterroot wilderness area of Idaho
         and Montana.
         Building on our success of reintroducing the gray wolves to Yellowstone National
         Park by expanding gray wolf recovery into suitable habitat in the United States.
         Your gift is needed now to support these critical projects and so many others. Despite our many victories, we still have far to go to ensure a healthy future for the wildlife and wild places of this nation. So, please take a moment right now and become a member of NWF with a gift of only $15 or more. You will be making a world of difference in helping us continue to fight for the species that cant fight for themselves.
         Appreciatively,
         Tom McGuire
         Vice President, Membership Programs
         P.S.	Please use the enclosed holiday gift wrapping paper and gift tags to help spread the word about our mission of conservation to your friends and family. Dont forget, we will also send you the NWF tote bag with your welcome package when we receive your membership gift. Thank you!
      
      
   




December 2000
Name
Address
New York, NY 10009
Earn up to 15,000 Mileage Plus bonus miles on your choice of cruises!
Dear Name:
Great destinations, your choice of itineraries, big bonus miles, and 3rd and 4th
passengers cruise FREE now sailing away with Renaissance Cruises is more rewarding
than ever. But see for yourself, because
these special rates are available only through January 7, 2001!
Renaissance Cruises vacations escort you from one fabulous destination to the next in
a beautiful cabin aboard a brand-new ship. Youll enjoy four outstanding restaurants,
nightly entertainment, an exciting casino, a fitness center and world-class spa  and
more! Optional shore excursions will provide the best opportunities for exploring the
highlights of each fascinating port-of-call!
This great offer is available on select sail dates from January through March 2001,
you can sail between Istanbul and Barcelona, Rome and Athens, or Athens and Istanbul.
Just look at these great itineraries! Cruise rates start as low as $599 for an
outside cabin on select sail dates, and all offer the option of your 3rdr and
4th passengers cruising free!
Select the itinerary that piques your interest, and call On-Call Travel Services to
reserve your cabin. Specify UWAX5 to receive this offer. Low international airfare is
also available. Offer is first-come, first-served and at this incredibly low rate,
cabins are sure to sell out quickly, so call 1-800-822-2841 today!
Sincerely,
Jack Mercer
Silver Wings Plus Cruise Desk
Price shown is for an outside cabin on select sail dates and new bookings only. Price
is per person, based on double occupancy, for cruise only, may vary by sail date, and
requires full payment at the time of purchase. Offer is subject to availability and
is not combinable with other offers, cabins may sell out before offer expires on
1/7/01. Cancellation fees may apply. All schedules and itineraries are subject to
change. Government tees and charges for all passengers are additional. All guests are
subject to the terms and conditions of Renaissance cruises Passage contract,
available upon request. Bonus miles are per cabin and will be credited within 8 weeks
of sailing. Mileage Plus account number must be provided at time of booking.




   
      
         
            Time Warner Cable120 East 23rd Street
            New York, NY 10010
            Connect to Time Warner Cable
            with DTV for FREE!
            
            
            Dear New Yorker,
            
            Finally television thats smart enough for New Yorkers! DTVDigital Television from Time Warner Cableis now available in your neighborhood, and wed like you to be one of the first to experience it!
            
            DTV is the ultimate choice in home entertainment. From digital picture and sound to new premium packages and a really cool picture-in-picture guide, its television you have to see to believe. And the connection is FREE!
            
            Everyone is looking to get the latest and greatest in digital technology. But before you go out and make any major purchases, like buying a satellite dish, you may want to take a moment to read this.
            
            DTV is the SMARTEST and most exciting innovation to happen to television. With DVT you dont just watch televisionyou experience it.
            
            DTV offers more than 200 channels, delivered with a picture as bright and as sharp as youd see on a movie screen and crystal clear sound that rivals your favorite CD.
            
            DTV allows you to receive up to 29 channels of HBO, SHOWTIME, CINEMAX, THE MOVIE CHANNEL, STARZ! and ENCORE.
            
            DTV gives you access to professional and college sports packages that are played outside the local viewing area, including NBA League Pass, NHL Center Ice, ESPN Game Plan, ESPN Full Court, MLS/ESPN Shootout and WNBA Season Pass.
            
            
            
            DTV has an interactive picture-in-picture programming guide that makes watching and controlling your television easy. Quick and concise, an on-screen information banner automatically gives you the who, when, and where of whats on.
            
            Unlike other services, with DTV, there is no equipment to buy. No up front costs. No contracts.
            FREE upgrades. FREE service calls. 24-hour customer support. And a 30-day Money Back Guarantee.
            Call now for a FREE connection to Time Warner Cable with DTV. Plus, youll receive your choice of a
            multichannel premium FREE. Thats a savings of over $60.00! Just call 718-888-4DTV.
            
            
            Sincerely,
            Time Warner Cable
            
            
            
            
            PS. Your neighborhood is also ready for Time Warner Cables Road Runner high speed online service. Call today for a FREE connection and save an additional $99.00!
            
            
            
            TIME WARNER
            new york CABLE
            at its best
         
      
   

   
      
         
         Help keep the promise alive...
         Dear Friend of Wildlife,
         A significant promise comes with your enclosed personalized address labels, which are ready for your immediate use. Its a big promise. And thats our vow to work hard to protect our countrys wildlife and the wild places on which they  and all of us depend!
         Its a promise weve kept for nearly 65 years. And one we will keep for as long as there are people like you who care about our countrys wildlife and wild places. Will you join us in this exciting mission ... and help keep the promise alive?
         This is why we decided to send you your special sheet of labels. We hope youll use them on all of your letters, packages and cards. By doing this, you tell the world that you, too, care about what we leave our children  clean water, thriving grassland and wetlands teeming with life and an amazing array of animals, birds and other creatures that share this planet with us.
         Using your address labels is an easy way to show you care about wildlife.
         But I also hope you will help us keep alive the promise behind these labels and become the newest member of National Wildlife Federation today.
         You see, we need a strong membership base to continue delivering on our promise. And with more than 3,000 species facing rapidly disappearing habitat we have never needed members like you more.
         We need your support today to help us face off against a noisy chorus of anti-wildlife forces who oppose all efforts at commonsense environmental protection. These enemies of conservation are mounting an intensive effort to weaken the Endangered Species Act ... and our ability to protect threatened and endangered species.
         The enclosed copy of Wildlife Watch highlights what is involved in the major campaigns were currently conducting for wildlife ... and the challenges that lie ahead.
         The feeling that you are a real partner in helping us achieve victories for wildlife is probably the biggest benefit of membership there is.
         But membership carries many tangible benefits as well ... benefits that will keep you up-to-date on the latest wildlife news, and benefits designed to enhance your own personal enjoyment of nature.
         For a membership gift of just $15, you will receive a full year of the worlds most beautiful nature magazine, NATIONAL WILDLIFE. With its spectacular, full-color photographs, compelling features and updates on the important work your membership helps us to accomplish, this award-winning publication alone is worth the modest gift! As a member, you will look forward to and enjoy a new issue of NATIONAL WILDLIFP every other month.
         And when you join well acknowledge your membership right away with a lovable gray wolf plush toy. Its our FREE gift to you for joining now and a charming reminder that your support helps NWF protect valuable wildlife species like this one.
         Like your address labels, your gray wolf toy says good things about you and your love of wildlife!
         PLUS, there are additional membership benefits for you to enjoy. Youll receive a membership card and attractive decal, wildlife and legislative alerts, in-depth monthly information packets on wildlife topics, invitations to outdoor programs, exciting travel opportunities and regular receipt of our trademark wildlife stamps  a national tradition since 1936  greeting cards, a calendar and address labels.
         But best of all, your membership provides you with an opportunity to make a real, personal difference in the world we all share.
         So, please send us your membership gift today ... by using the convenient form attached to your personal address labels. We look forward to your reply.
         Appreciatively,
         Mark Van Putten
         President
         P.S. As soon as we hear from you by return mail and receive your $15 membership gift, we will send your NWF gray wolf plush toy. Then be on the lookout for NATIONAL WILDLIFE where youll see spectacular pictures of wildlife species like this one ... and learn just how NWF goes about safeguarding them with your help.
      
      
   

   
      
         
         December 7, 2000
         FirstName LastName
         StreetNumber StreetName, 
         CityName, StateName, ZipCode
         Dear Friend,
         
         As a member of World Wildlife Fund, you know that our efforts are essential to preserving the astonishing,
         yet desperately threatened diversity of life here on Earth.

         Im also hoping you know that you play a vital role in achieving our conservation goals around the
         globe.

         Thats why I want to extend my appreciation for your last membership contribution of $500. And
         why Im writing you today to ask you to renew your support for the pivotal year ahead.

         In fact, I want to urge you to strengthen your dedication to saving life on Earth  by sending a generous
         leadership gift of $750 and becoming a member of World Wildlife Funds prestigious Living Planet Society.

         With your increased commitment, we can move forward to thwart the most serious threats to endangered
         ecosystems. After all, conservation begins with saving those at-risk places - our forests and deserts, wetlands and oceans, mangroves and coral reefs  that provide a lifeline for
         precious animals and plants.

         To this end, weve designated some 200 ecoregions, those with the most outstanding and diverse habitats, as
         our Global 200. Were now creating model projects in 25 of these high-priority areas -- in order to balance
         conservation with peoples need to use natural resources to sustain their livelihoods.

         With your increased commitment, we can intensify our campaigns to protect species that are in grave peril by
         both the loss of habitat and the illegal trading in animal parts.

         Quite simply, WWF must do even more to safeguard the tigers, rhinos, pandas. whales, and other creatures
         that still remain in the wild. While we still have the chance.

         So in addition to our efforts to conserve wildlife preserves, well escalate our trailblazing program to
         find alternatives for traditional tiger-based medicines ... rescue more rhinos in Kenya and Nepal through our
         ambitious translocation projects ... complete the first survey of Chinas pandas in over a decade ... and fight
         to halt all commercial whaling, as well as the whale meat trade.

         Well also award more small grants through our Species Action Fund to help a wide range of animals,
         including whooping cranes, giant river otters, and Tibetan antelopes.

         And with your increased commitment, we can battle against destructive global forces that transcend regional
         and national boundaries. Overfishing, deforestation, climate change, and the proliferation of toxic chemicals
         top the list.

         For instance, our innovative Forests for Life Campaign establishes an international network of parks and
         reserves. This will protect at least 10% of each different type of forest found in every country. Another WWF
         goal? To end government subsidies that promote overfishing and to encourage new markets for sustainably managed
         fisheries.

         The challenges we face are daunting, to be sure. However, Im confident that by joining together again, we
         can make exciting progress in the year ahead. I want to ask you, therefore, to renew your valued World Wildlife
         Fund membership and, hopefully, at the Living Planet Society level of $750.

         When you do, youll extend your commitment as an esteemed partner with WWF -- the largest and most effective
         international conservation group in existence.

         Now, with your increased commitment, we can save more of our planets cherished wild species and their
         irreplaceable habitats ... as we strive to ensure a healthy and thriving future for our extraordinary natural
         world.

         Once again, please accept my warmest gratitude for your past support And please, take a moment today to
         renew your critically important WWF annual membership. Thank you.

         Sincerely,
         Kathryn S. Fuller
         President
         P.S. As a Living Planet Society member, youll receive the wonderful array of benefits described in the enclosed brochure. Plus, to acknowledge your increased gift of $750, well send you a free copy of our stunning coffee-table photography book, Living Planet Preserving Edens of the Earth. Please let it be a constant reminder of all youre doing to preserve our endangered wildlife!
      
      
   



INT - ROLAND'S RANCH - EVENING 
 INT - THE INSIDE OF A LARGE RANCH HOUSE IN MOMBASA, KENYA. MOST OF THE LIGHTS
ARE OFF AND SUNLIGHT IS STREAMING THROUGH THE WINDOWS - DAY 
 Camera follows closely, two feet walking down a stone hallway. They are
moving fast. The camera zooms out as the feet stop at a set of heavy, wooden doors.
The camera now shows the back of a man opening the doors. He steps inside. 

JEFFERY CLARK
>(Shouting)
Uncle? 

 CLARK flips on the lights. It reveals the many stuffed trophies of
ROLAND TEMBO. 
 CLARK turns the lights off and turns to leave but is met in the doorway
by ERNST, who is wielding a fire poker. 

ERNST
>(Nervously)
Stand where you are, sir. Mr. Tembo doesn't have visitors, you are
trespassing. 


JEFFERY CLARK
Ernst? Is that you? It's me Jeffery. 


ERNST
>(dropping the poker)
Oh, Master Jeffery, you scared the blazes out of me. I didn't hear you knock,
and Mister Tembo didn't tell me to expect you. 


JEFFERY CLARK
I'm sorry, Ernst, I let myself in. Where is Uncle Roland? 


ERNST
>(Leading CLARK out of the trophy room)
Right this way, Sir. 


ERNST is leading CLARK down another shadowy hallway.
 JEFFERY CLARK 

How is he, Ernst? I didn't hear much of anything before I got on the
plane. 

ERNST
Mister Tembo is not in very good shape, Sir. Perhaps it would be best if I let
the doctor apprise you of the situation. 

 ERNST and CLARK approach a man wearing a white shirt, khaki shorts and
a stethoscope. 
 ERNST (CONT'D) 
Master Clark, this is Dr. Tambala. Dr. Tambala, this is Mr. Tembo's
nephew, Jeffery Clark. 

JEFFERY CLARK
How do you do, Doctor? 


DR. TAMBALA
I am very well, thank you. I wish I could say the same about your uncle.



JEFFERY CLARK
What happened? 


DR. TAMBALA
There was an accident on a safari. Mr. Tembo was badly injured. 


JEFFERY CLARK
What kind of accident? 


ERNST
Mr. Tembo saved some bloody American's life...Oh, sorry Master Jeffery 


JEFFERY CLARK
It's all right, Ernst. 

 JEFFERY CLARK (CONT'D) 
(To TAMBALA) 
What happened? I thought Uncle Roland gave up hunting after that
incident in San Diego. 

DR. TAMBALA
It was a sightseeing safari. Two of the people on the tour wandered off and
were attacked by lions. Mr. Tembo went after them, but the lions turned their
attack on him. The tour bus caught up with them a few minutes later, but one of
the tourists was already dead, the other was hurt, and Roland was almost done
for. 


JEFFERY CLARK
Oh, god. 


DR. TAMBALA
He suffered severe trauma to the neck, back, torso, and abdomen. He is lucky
to be alive, but he's completely paralyzed below the waist, and he's lost use of
his right arm. 


JEFFERY CLARK
What are his chances? 


DR. TAMBALA
It's not so much a matter of chances as it is a matter of time now. 


JEFFERY CLARK
Can he speak? 


DR. TAMBALA
He isn't talking very much; it hurts for him to breathe. 


JEFFERY CLARK
I'd like to talk with him. 


DR. TAMBALA
I think that that is a good idea. 

 INT - ROLAND'S BEDROOM - DAY 
 CLARK makes his way into ROLAND's room. He sees his uncle in bed with a
respirator mask over his face. I.V. bags hang from the bedposts. CLARK sits on the
chair near ROLAND's head. 

JEFFERY CLARK
>(Sitting)
Uncle Roland? 


ROLAND TEMBO
>(Stirring slowly, attempting to move the mask)
Jeffery, my boy, so good to see you. 


JEFFERY CLARK
>(Helping remove the mask)
It's good to see you too, Uncle. I hear you were being quite the hero. 


ROLAND TEMBO
I told them to stay in the bus...they wouldn't listen. 


JEFFERY CLARK
I know, Uncle, I know. You can't stop every idiot from acting like one.



ROLAND TEMBO
>(Smiling faintly)
Very true. Tell me, what does the doctor think about my condition? 


JEFFERY CLARK
We're not very optimistic, I'm afraid. 


ROLAND TEMBO
>(Chuckling turning into coughing)
Bloody hell, I don't feel much like being optimistic either. 


JEFFERY CLARK
Mom sends her best. I'm sure she would have come with me if she knew how
serious your condition is. 


ROLAND TEMBO
I know she and I haven't been as close as a brother and sister should have...


ROLAND begins coughing hard.

JEFFERY CLARK
Easy, Uncle Roland, you need your rest. 

 CLARK moves to put the mask back on ROLAND's face. ROLAND stops him. 

ROLAND TEMBO
Jeffery, my boy, I'm going to die. 


JEFFERY CLARK
We're all going to die, Uncle. Death is what defines life, remember? All of
those hunts you took me to. I remember what you taught me. 


ROLAND TEMBO
There was one hunt I never finished. One hunt that caused more death than any
hunt should. 


JEFFERY CLARK
The T-Rex? 


ROLAND TEMBO
Yes, San Diego was devastated because I failed to make a clean kill. 


JEFFERY CLARK
You used what you had, Uncle Roland. There's no shame in that. 


ROLAND TEMBO
It could happen again, because I didn't bag the rex when I had the chance.



JEFFERY CLARK
Uncle... 


ROLAND TEMBO
Jeffery, I am not long for this Earth. Please, I must ask you to do this for
me. You must finish that hunt. 


JEFFERY CLARK
You want me to take the rex? 


ROLAND TEMBO
>(Nodding)
With that. 

 ROLAND motions with his to a brown case sitting on a chair just past
the foot of his bed. 

JEFFERY CLARK
>(Standing and walking toward the case)
Is that Grandpa's gun? 


ROLAND TEMBO
A man can only hope to leave the world a better place than when he came into
it. I have let loose a terrible plague upon the Earth, I can only rest when the
scourge has been eradicated. 


JEFFERY CLARK
Uncle, you weren't responsible for San Diego, John Hammond and InGen were.
They created the rex, and from what I've read in the paper, they created a beast
capable of killing the rex. It wasn't your fault, InGen started it... 


ROLAND TEMBO
>(interrupting)
And we have to finish it. 


JEFFERY CLARK
Uncle... 


ROLAND TEMBO
Jeffrey, please. I regret nothing from my life except that. 


JEFFERY CLARK
>(thinking for a moment before grabbing the case)
It won't be easy getting there. 


ROLAND TEMBO
You have access to all of my resources...I seem to have no need for money
anymore. 


JEFFERY CLARK
Promise me one thing. 


ROLAND TEMBO
Anything I can do, I will. 


JEFFERY CLARK
Don't go anywhere until I bring you the trophy. 

 CLARK walks toward the door, he turns and nods at ROLAND, who is
smiling weakly. CLARK exits and shuts the door behind him. 





EXT - CEMETERY - DAY 
 EXT - A LIGHT RAIN IS FALLING ON A CEMETERY IN CALIFORNIA. - DAY 
 Start with a wide shot of the cemetery. Follow a single,
umbrella-carrying individual up the hill to join the funeral under an awning. We
can't see his face, but he makes his way over to two other individuals standing
apart from the main group who we only see from the back. The man closes and shakes
off his umbrella, it is MALCOLM. The other two people, GRANT and SATTLER turn to
look at him. 

IAN MALCOLM
>(whispered)
Dr. Grant, Dr. Sattler. 


ALAN GRANT
>(whispered)
Dr. Malcolm. 


ELLIE SATTLER
>(whispered)
Hello, Ian. 


ALAN GRANT
Have any trouble getting in? 


IAN MALCOLM
Yeah, the rain delayed the flight. 


FR. STRUG
>(from the head of the congregation)
...Let us go now, not in sadness, but rejoicing in the knowledge that our
husband, our father, our grandfather, and our friend has been granted eternal
salvation and a place where he may walk with the angels in Heaven. Amen. 

 The congregation responds with an "Amen," and there is a great
shuffling of feet and chairs as the mourners get up to leave. The bagpiper again
plays "Amazing Grace" as MALCOM walks toward the casket. 

IAN MALCOLM
>(to casket)
Well, John, for the first time in a long time, I don't know what to say. You
and I have never been on particularly good terms, and I regret not burying that
hatchet while you were still alive, but at the same time, I can't help but think
that your passing adds a sense of closure to twelve years of horror. Ah, that's
not what I meant to say...Maybe I'd better just leave it as "goodbye". Goodbye,
John. 

 MALCOM takes a single rose from inside of his jacket and tosses on the
coffin. He walks back toward GRANT and SATTLER, but the camera pans down to the
headstone, which reads "Jonathon Parker Hammond 1923-2004". 

ELLIE SATTLER
>(to MALCOM)
Saying your goodbyes? 


IAN MALCOLM
It still doesn't seem entirely real. 


ALAN GRANT
It is strange to think of how many deaths that he was partly responsible for,
and it's only catching up to him now. 


ELLIE SATTLER
He never really wanted anyone to die. He was just so intent on making history
that he forgot the human cost could be devastating. 


SAMUEL PERKINS
>(Approaching from behind)
Dr. Grant, Dr. Sattler, and Dr. Malcolm? 


ALAN GRANT
Yes, that's us. 


SAMUEL PERKINS
Hi, I'm Samuel Perkins, executor of Mr. Hammond's estate. While we were
drawing up his final will, he wanted me to make sure I contacted you in person.



IAN MALCOLM
He left us something? 


SAMUEL PERKINS
A message. 


ALAN GRANT
What is it? 


SAMUEL PERKINS
He recorded it a few weeks before his death, I'm to show it to the three of
you as soon as possible. 

PERKINS reaches into his coat pocket and pulls out business
cards.

SAMUEL PERKINS (CONT'D)
If you'd like to stop by my office tomorrow, and I know you're all very busy,
so I'd be more than happy to finish this up as soon as possible. 

FADE OUT






INT - SAMUEL PERKINS' OFFICE - MORNING 
 INT - GRANT, MALCOLM, AND SATTLER ARE SEATED IN FRONT OF A DESK IN A LEGAL
OFFICE. BOOKCASES LINE THE WALLS, A TV ON A MOBILE STAND IS BEHIND THE DESK WITH A
LEATHER CHAIR. - MORNING 

IAN MALCOLM
...Actually the San Diego incident restored a lot of my credibility. I was no
longer a lunatic who had seen dinosaurs with a bunch of other people who didn't.



ALAN GRANT
About that... 


ELLIE SATTLER
We're really sorry we didn't back you up about the park. 


ALAN GRANT
There was just so much at stake...research money had been really hard to come
by. In retrospect, it wasnt worth lying. 


ELLIE SATTLER
You lost as much as we did on that island, we shouldn't have deserted you.



ALAN GRANT
I'm sorry, Ian. 


IAN MALCOLM
I have to admit, I did hold it against you in the beginning, but now I look
back and I realize that three lunatics would have been no more convincing to the
general public than just one. 


ELLIE SATTLER
Are you forgiving us? 


IAN MALCOLM
(smirking)
Well, I don't usually let people slide for mistakes of this magnitude, but
what the heck. It's water under the bridge. 

 PERKINS enters from behind GRANT, MALCOLM, and SATTLER. He is carrying
a large manila envelope. 

SAMUEL PERKINS
(moving from the door to his desk)
Sorry to have kept you waiting for so long. I know we all have business to
tend to today, so I'll be as brief as possible. 

PERKINS reads off of the envelope.

SAMUEL PERKINS (CONT'D) 
I, Jonathon Parker Hammond, as my final wish request that the following video
be shown only to Alan Grant, Ellen Sattler, and Ian Malcolm and only to the
three of the aforementioned as a group of three on the occasion of my death."



IAN MALCOLM
Just your average "farewell from beyond the grave" boilerplate, huh? 


SAMUEL PERKINS
(laughing)
Mr. Hammond hated lawyers almost as much as he hated the language we use.



SAMUEL PERKINS (CONT'D)
(indicating the VHS tape)
But I think this should be quite straightforward. Mr. Hammond always seemed
like that kind of man to me. 


ALAN GRANT
(Searching for the word)
He was... 


ELLIE SATTLER
Unique. 


IAN MALCOLM
To put it mildly. 


SAMUEL PERKINS
(turning on the TV)
Okay, I'm just going to go ahead and start this tape. 

 When PERKINS turns on the TV, CNN shows on the screen with one of their
regular programs. When he pushes "play" the screen goes black for a moment, then
John Hammond fades into view. He is dressed in a robe and is clearly reclining in a
hospital bed with I.V. bags hanging near him and a heart monitor at his side. 

JOHN HAMMOND
G'day. I suppose that if you're watching this, the inevitable has already
occurred. I have passed from this life to, what I hope will be a merciful
afterlife. 


JOHN HAMMOND (CONT'D)
I want to take a moment to apologize once more to each of you for the
tremendous pain and hardships I put you through. Dr. Sattler, I hope you can
find it in your heart to forgive me for what happened in the park. I know the
years that followed the disaster weren't easy on you or your relationship with
Dr. Grant. Dr. Grant, I want to apologize to you for burdening you with the
safety of what amounted to three children on two separate islands. I know that
the revelation of Site B has had a negative impact on your research in Montana.
I hope you find a way to continue your excellent work in the field. Dr. Malcolm,
you put yourself in harm's way twice at my request. I had no intention of ever
hurting anyone, but misfortune seemed to be the norm on the islands. 


JOHN HAMMOND (CONT'D)
I'd also like to thank the three of you. I thank Dr. Sattler for teaching me
humility. Before the disaster on Isla Nublar, I thought of myself as the creator
of a perfect system, a god of the island itself. As it turns out, I was only
playing God, as Ian pointed out so well. Thank you, Ian, for teaching me that
there are some things Man cannot control. Dr. Grant, I want to thank you again
for taking care of my grandchildren in the park. What you did for them and then
what you did for that family on Isla Sorna are truly worthy of the highest
praise. 


JOHN HAMMOND (CONT'D)
Finally, I must ask the three of you for something. I have long considered
myself the steward of the islands and their inhabitants, but I will not be here
forever. When I am gone they will need someone to be their caretakers, their
advocates, and their guardians. I am asking the three of you to take up my
cause. I'm not asking you because I feel you owe me anything, quite the
opposite, I am asking you to take this responsibility because you are the only
three people in the world I know I can trust to make the right decisions.



JOHN HAMMOND (CONT'D)
Before I leave you, I'd like to let you know I've done everything in my power
to provide for the welfare and well being of the families of those souls lost on
the islands. I've also set up a trust fund for the defense of the islands, Mr.
Perkins will be able to provide you with all the necessary paperwork, and I've
retained him as chief counsel for you. Any other information you could need lies
in the mind of Dr. Garret Wang. He was my head engineer at Site B. After the
facility was cleared out, Dr. Wang went to work for a firm in
Seattle...GenetiCorp. 


JOHN HAMMOND (CONT'D)
I'd like to say I'm sorry one more time, and ask you to consider what I've
asked of you, if not for me then for the animals themselves. God bless you, and
good luck. 

 The TV screen fades to black and then goes to static. PERKINS pops the
tape out, and CNN rolls muted in the background. 

SAMUEL PERKINS
(Turning to face GRANT, SATTLER, and MALCOLM)
Like Mr. Hammond said, I have all of the papers for the Dinosaur Defense Fund
right here... 


ALAN GRANT
(Looking over PERKINS' shoulder at the TV screen)
What the hell is that? 

 All four people move closer to the TV as PERKINS turns the sound on.
CNN has a live "breaking news" story datelined in Costa Rica. The video camera pans
between the reporter and a large footprint in the wet beach sand. 

MELINA ORTEGA (O.S.)
...As you can see by the size of this impression, this is a very large
creature. Witnesses estimate its length at about forty of fifty feet with
gigantic, tooth-filled jaws. 


FRANTIC WITNESS
(in broken English)
The thing was laying on the beach when I woke up this morning. One of the dogs
from the neighborhood ran up to it and started barking. The lizard woke up and
made a horrible noise. The whole village shook. 


MELINA ORTEGA
Apparently the creature's roar brought many curious villagers out of their
homes. When it caught sight of them, it attacked. Casualty reports range
anywhere from a half dozen to twenty or more. 


MELINA ORTEGA (CONT'D)
(Motioning for the camera to point toward military vehicles in the
background)
As you can see behind me, the U.S. Marines have already arrived. Apparently
they were engaging in training maneuvers near the Panama Canal when word of this
broke. While it is not clear what the strategy here will be, it is clear that
they are not underestimating the threat. 

Camera focuses on a tank.

ELLIE SATTLER
My god. They're on the mainland. 


ALAN GRANT
Oh no. 


IAN MALCOLM
Damn it, John, you knew this could happen. 

 Scene cuts back to the TV screen. 

MELINA ORTEGA
(walking swiftly toward a group of armored
vehicles)
We're being told to clear the area, so we're heading into an area the Marines
have rendered safe. We wont be able to broadcast a live feed from the area, so
until we're clear, this is Melina Ortega live in Costa Rica. 


CNN ANCHOR
Our thoughts and prayers for a safe return are with you, Melina. Right now, we
have just received amateur footage of the attack, and we're going to roll that
for you now. 

 A grainy video recorded at early dawn shows a two-legged dinosaur
tearing open a car and disappearing into the jungle. 

CNN ANCHOR (CONT'D) (O.S.)
Again, this was taken by an amateur cameraman in Costa Rica sometime in the
pre-dawn hours of this morning. The picture quality isn't good, but you can
clearly see what can only be described as a dinosaur attacking a car. 

TV cuts back to the ANCHORMAN.

CNN ANCHOR (CONT'D)
Of course, we haven't seen anything like this since the 1997 incident in San
Diego, when a Tyrannosaurus Rex created by InGen got loose and went on a rampage
through the city. 


IAN MALCOLM
Is this really happening? 

 GRANT, SATTLER, and PERKINS are all glued to the TV when there is a
knock at the door. 

SAMUEL PERKINS
(not really paying attention)
Come. 

A young Army officer steps into the office.

LT. AMY BRANNIGAN
 Sorry to bother you, sir. I was sent for Dr. Alan Grant and Dr. Ian Malcolm.



ALAN GRANT
That's us. What do you need? 


LT. AMY BRANNIGAN
You gentlemen need to come with me. 


IAN MALCOLM
What? Why? 


LT. AMY BRANNIGAN
Sir, my orders are to bring you to the base. 


ALAN GRANT
Look, Miss... 


LT. AMY BRANNIGAN
It's Lieutenant, Lieutenant Brannigan. 


ALAN GRANT
Of course, I'm sorry. It's just that a lot has happened in such a short time,
and I think we're all just going to need a little time to put it all together.



LT. AMY BRANNIGAN
Sir, I know you might feel that way right now, but I have been ordered to
bring you with me without delay. 


IAN MALCOLM
I'm afraid I have to agree with Dr. Grant here, Lieutenant. 


LT. AMY BRANNIGAN
Sir, there are two Military Police officer waiting in the hall and two more
outside. I'm to place you under arrest if you don't come with me right now.



ALAN GRANT
Well, Ian, it looks like we'd better go. 


ALAN GRANT (CONT'D)
(whispering to SATTLER)
Ellie, go to Seattle and find Dr. Wang. We need to know everything we can
about whatever this thing is. 


ELLIE SATTLER
You think this has something to do with the incident in Costa Rica? 


ALAN GRANT
I'd bet my bottom dollar. 







EXT - ISLA SORNA - DAWN 
 EXT - CLARK IS CROUCHING IN THE MIDDLE OF THE T-REX NEST ON ISLA SORNA. HE IS
HOLDING HIS UNCLE'S H&H IN HIS HANDS AND IS WEARING A GHILLE SUIT. - DAWN 
 CLARK reaches up to press a button on his left shoulder. He begins
recording. 

JEFFERY CLARK
(to the microphone)
Isla Sorna, day fourteen. I have been on this island for two weeks, and I've
seen no sign of either the T-Rex or the Spinosaurus. I have been to all of the
locations that the animals were said to frequent but without avail. I am out of
food and set to meet the helicopter at the designated meeting point in twelve
hours. I regret that I am coming home from this hunt empty-handed. 







Jurassic Park IV
Chris Hartman
EXT - SAMARA. COSTA RICA - MIDDAY
 EXT - A BLACKHAWK HELICOPTER LANDS IN SAMARA, COSTA RICA. ARMORED VEHICLES ARE
HOLDING POSITIONS AROUND A RAVAGED VILLAGE. - MIDDAY
 As the helicopter lands, GRANT and MALCOLM debark. The chopper takes
off again, as a Humvee approaches them. GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ exits the vehicle and
walks up to them.
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ
(Shouting over the helicopter) Dr. Grant, Dr.
Malcolm, welcome to Costa Rica, I'm General Sanchez and I'm in command of this
little fiasco. Sorry we had to drag you here so abruptly, but you know what they
say about desperate times.
ALAN GRANT Why are we here?
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ We need you help, Dr. Grant. If you'll
follow me.
SANCHEZ leads GRANT and MALCOLM down to the beach.
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ (CONT'D)
Frankly, I've never seen anything like this. I'd wager no one has, save you
two and a handful of others. We didn't know what to make of it at first, and how
to preserve the specimen was a bit ambiguous, but one of our Marines was a big
paleontology nut and had read all about you and your work and how to preserve
delicate fossils. He managed to rig something up to protect the sample from the
elements until you could arrive to make the positive identification.
IAN MALCOLM So, why am I here?
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ You've seen firsthand how a dinosaur
behaves in an urban environment.
IAN MALCOLM If you're talking about San Diego, I can assure
you that this area is substantially different.
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ What do you mean?
IAN MALCOLM What I saw was a dinosaur in a highly-developed,
downtown area with nowhere to hide. This is a small village with dense jungle on
all sides. It might as well be back on the island.
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ But you did see the dinosaurs on the
islands?
IAN MALCOLM Only the T-Rexes.
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ So you are uniquely familiar with the
behaviors of dinosaurs interacting with people.
IAN MALCOLM Yes, but I'm sure Dr. Grant is much more of an
asset than I am.
ALAN GRANT Scared, Ian?
IAN MALCOLM Extremely. I have been brought into a
dinosaur-infested area to provide advice I'm not competent to give.
ALAN GRANT Dinosaur-infested? It's only one.
IAN MALCOLM One is way too many. You know that.
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ Regardless of your objections, Dr.
Malcolm, you're here. The government wouldn't have brought you into this area
unless it felt you would be an asset.
 The three of them arrive at a large, tarp-covered
square.
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ (CONT'D) Here we are, let's get this
thing up.
 A few Marines lift the frame up and out offscreen, revealing a large
footprint.
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ (CONT'D) What do you make of that, Dr.
Grant?
 GRANT stoops low and examines the trackway.
ALAN GRANT
(rising) I couldn't tell you for sure,
General, but it looks a bit bigger than the T-Rex tracks I've seen. Unless InGen
created another gigantic predator, I'd say it's probably the
Spinosaur.
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ Okay, I'll call the
Pentagon.
 SANCHEZ shouts for a soldier to set up the communications equipment to
contact the Pentagon and walks away from GRANT and MALCOLM.
IAN MALCOLM Spinosaurus?
ALAN GRANT Yeah, we encountered it on Isla
Sorna.
IAN MALCOLM Odd, we didn't.
ALAN GRANT Hammond said the animals were territorial, it
might be that the Spinosaur had shifted it's hunting area in the years between
our little escapades.
IAN MALCOLM I didn't read much of anything on your
misadventure on Site B.
ALAN GRANT Well, the Kirbys decided to let me have the movie
rights as compensation for, shall we say, services rendered. I was actually
working with Universal in L.A. when John died.
IAN MALCOLM Any reason you didn't bring me in on
this?
ALAN GRANT God knows I tried, Ian. You're a hard man to
track down. Obviously, the rights are as much yours as they are mine. I only
accepted the offer to help fund the research we're doing in Montana.
IAN MALCOLM A movie about dinosaurs? Do you think the public
will buy that?
 The conversation is interrupted by a helicopter flying low toward the
beach. Several Marines shout as they hurry to cover the footprint. GRANT and MALCOLM
look toward SANCHEZ who is shouting in a megaphone.
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ
(through the megaphone) Attention, pilot: this
is a no-fly zone. You are not authorized to land here, return to your point of
origin immediately.
 The helicopter touches down on the sand and a man hops out of the rear
door. He is carrying a large duffel bag and wearing khaki trousers, khaki shirt, and
a black ball cap. The man slams the door closed, pounds on it with his fist, and
points skyward. The chopper takes off as the man is surrounded by Marines and
Humvees.
IAN MALCOLM Who the hell is this?
ALAN GRANT Beats me. Where's General Sanchez.
IAN MALCOLM
(pointing toward the circle of Marines and the
man) I think he's going over to greet the
newcomer.
 The man is now facing away from GRANT and MALCOLM. He is at gunpoint
and on his knees with his hands behind his head.
 GRANT and MALCOLM jog over to the site of the commotion. The man,
CLARK, who has his hands cuffed behind his back is being lead over to
SANCHEZ.
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ
(shouting at CLARK) Just who the hell are you
and what the hell do you think you're doing?
JEFFERY CLARK My name is Jeffery Clark; I've been hunting on
an island off the coast, and I needed to re-supply.
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ Didn't your pilot hear the radio
warnings? This is a no-fly zone. No one gets in and no one gets out.
JEFFERY CLARK There must have been a mistake, we thought
this was some sort of market.
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ You can't be serious.
JEFFERY CLARK Does it really matter? I'm here now, and I'll
be on my way back to the island just as soon as I buy some food.
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ Oh no, you're not. You are under arrest
for violating a military order.
JEFFERY CLARK
(noting SANCHEZ's insignia) Look, General, do
you really have the facilities to hold me?
IAN MALCOLM Excuse me, General Sanchez. Mr. Clark, was it?
What island were you hunting on?
JEFFERY CLARK Well, since it looks like I'm already in
trouble, it can't hurt to tell you I was on Isla Sorna.
IAN MALCOLM You were hunting dinosaurs?
JEFFERY CLARK
(sarcastically) No, Isla Sorna is well known
for its penguin population.
JEFFERY CLARK (CONT'D) (recognizing MALCOLM)
Wait, are you Ian Malcolm?
IAN MALCOLM Yes. Do I know you?
JEFFERY CLARK No, you knew my uncle, Roland
Tembo.
IAN MALCOLM I wouldn't say I knew him that well. How is he
doing, by the way?
JEFFERY CLARK Not well, I'm afraid. That's the only reason
I'm here and he's not.
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ Enough! Mr. Clark, you have just
stumbled into a very dangerous area. As much as I hate it, you are stuck here
until the beast is captured.
JEFFERY CLARK Beast? What beast?
ALAN GRANT The Spinosaur.
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ
(snapping at GRANT) Dr. Grant!
JEFFERY CLARK What about the rexes?
ALAN GRANT What *about* the rexes?
JEFFERY CLARK They weren't on the island either.
IAN MALCOLM How many T-Rexes are we talking about here? As
far as I knew there were only three. Two adults and the baby.
ALAN GRANT Right, and one of them was killed by the
Spinosaur while I was on the island.
JEFFERY CLARK So there might be two more dinosaurs on the
mainland?
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ Gentlemen! We can't just jump to that
conclusion.
IAN MALCOLM He's right. There could be a thousand reasons
you didn't see the T-Rexes on the island. Maybe the Spinosaur killed the other
two in the interim since he killed the first one maybe they swam for it and
drowned. The fact is, we don't know, and we shouldn't draw conclusions that
might further disturb the public.
CPL. RICK TOWNSEND
(Running toward SANCHEZ) General Sanchez, sir.
News from Nosara.
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ What is it? An attack?
CPL. RICK TOWNSEND No, Sir, another footprint has been
found.
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ Same print?
CPL. RICK TOWNSEND No, Sir. It's smaller, Sir.
JEFFERY CLARK What are the chances the spino's feet
shrunk?
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ Shut up, Mr. Clark. Dr. Grant, could
the tracks have been made by the same animal?
ALAN GRANT It's possible, where is Nosra?
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ Corporal?
CPL. RICK TOWNSEND Nosara, Sir. It's about fifteen or twenty
kilometers up the coast.
ALAN GRANT I imagine it's technically possible. A T-Rex
moving at full speed was clocked at thirty-some miles per hour. The Spinosaur
had a slightly longer gait, so I'd put it's normal walking speed at about ten,
maybe fifteen, miles per hour.
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ Right, and that would put him there
within an hour of leaving here, and it was last seen almost six hours ago. It
had plenty of time to get up there.
CPL. RICK TOWNSEND Sir, we have reason to believe the tracks
were made less than an hour ago. Given the print's position and the receeding
tide, it couldn't have been made more than forty-five minutes ago.
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ Jesus, forty-five minutes
ago?
CPL. RICK TOWNSEND Well, fifty minutes now, Sir.
ALAN GRANT And what's the size difference?
CPL. RICK TOWNSEND Twelve inches, Sir.
ALAN GRANT General Sanchez, I think we have to consider the
possibility that there is a second dinosaur in Costa Rica.
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ
(thinking then sighing) Corporal, get on the
horn, notify all units of the second dinosaur.
CPL. RICK TOWNSEND Yes, Sir.
TOWNSEND leaves
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ You three stay here, I'm going to call
Washington and break the news to them.
JEFFERY CLARK
(motioning to his hands) General, would you
mind?
SANCHEZ motions for a Marine to unlock CLARK's hands.
JEFFERY CLARK (CONT'D) What about my bag?
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ It's still being searched. You'll get
it back when we're satisfied that you're no longer a threat. In the mean time,
stay put.
SANCHEZ walks off toward a communications tent.
GRANT's phone rings. It's SATTLER calling from Seattle. The shot cuts
between each speaker as they talk. > ALAN
GRANT Alan Grant.
ELLIE SATTLER Alan, it's Ellie.
ALAN GRANT Oh, Ellie. How are you doing? What have you found
out?
ELLIE SATTLER I found Dr. Wang. He was less than willing to
be helpful, but I managed to glean a few things.
ALAN GRANT About the Spinosaur, what about the
Spinosaur?
ELLIE SATTLER As it turns out, the spino was one of the
first dinosaurs bred on the island. Apparantly, there was a mix-up in the lab
and they cloned a Spinosaur instead of a Tyrannosaur.
ALAN GRANT Great, how does that help us?
ELLIE SATTLER It gets worse, actually. The spino and the
rexes were both prototypes for the lysine contingency, but the system wasn't
perfected until the next set of dinosaurs were cloned.
ALAN GRANT Ellie, what are you saying?
ELLIE SATTLER Alan, the spino and the rexes don't need
supplemental enzymes to survive. They can make their own lysine.
ALAN GRANT Then how can we stop them?
ELLIE SATTLER I don't know, but please be
careful.
ALAN GRANT Thanks, Ellie. I will.
 GRANT walks back toward SANCHEZ, MALCOLM, and CLARK.
IAN MALCOLM Dr. Sattler?
ALAN GRANT Yes.
IAN MALCOLM What did she find out?
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ
(walking back from the tent) Who's Dr.
Sattler?
ALAN GRANT She located the head researcher at of Site B. He
told her that the Spinosaur and the T-Rexes were not bred
lysine-deficient.
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ And that means what to us
exacty?
ALAN GRANT It means the animals can exist indefinitly eating
non-lysine-enriched food.
IAN MALCOLM You mean, whatever they can find.
ALAN GRANT I'm afraid so.
JEFFERY CLARK General, I came down here to hunt the T-Rex,
and I will do so if you let me.
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ Mr. Clark, I can't in good conscience
let a civillian go on his own when there are not one, but two, dangerous
creatures still running amok. Even if there weren't dinosaurs in this are, I
wouldn't let you leave with enough firepower to engage a small armored
division.
JEFFERY CLARK Are you talking about my uncle's elephant gun
or my rifle?
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ Jesus, Clark, it's a fifty caliber
anti-material rifle, not your everyday deer gun.
JEFFERY CLARK I'm hunting something a little bigger than a
deer, I can tell you that.
ALAN GRANT Wait a minute. We still don't know why the
Spinosaur came here, but if the relationship between the two species is the
same, we can assume why the T-Rex came too.
IAN MALCOLM You think the rex is chasing the
Spinosaur?
ALAN GRANT I read Sarah Harding's book about the parenting
instincts of the T-Rexes. If they destroyed your trailers because you took their
infant, imagine what they'd have done if you had killed it.
IAN MALCOLM So the Spinosaur kills the baby rex and mom goes
out looking for revenge? How would it have even tracked it?
ALAN GRANT By smell. The T-Rex was only a few hours behind
the Spinosaur. They could very easily have left at nearly the same
time.
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ The question still remains: how do we
find them? I think it's pretty clear that we seal off Costa Rica's borders. If
either one of them gets south of Panama, we'll never find them in the
Amazon.
IAN MALCOLM Considering, General, that these animals swam
two-hundred miles to get here, I think it's safe to say they could swim from
here to South America without much difficulty.
ALAN GRANT We need to find one of them. If we find the
T-Rex, it will lead us to the Spinosaur. If we find the Spinosaur, the T-rex
will come to us. First we'll have to figure out a more secure method for
containing them. Clearly, an ocean is no obstacle...
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ Dr. Grant, the official position is to
neutralize the threat as quickly as possible.
ALAN GRANT What are you talking
about..."neutralize"?
IAN MALCOLM Alan, these dinosaurs can't be contained.
They've overcome every security obstacle people have put in their way. If we
build a better cage, they are just going to break out again and
again.
ALAN GRANT You know my dislike of John Hammond was just as
strong as yours, but he was right, Ian. We are the only people who can protect
the animals and the island. Their creation may have been illegitimatized in a
lab, but their lives are real.
IAN MALCOLM How many disasters will it take, Alan? How many
people have to end up as dinner for these dinosaurs before they become
nuisances? When the good of the world is on the line, we have to sacrifice the
good of our charges.
ALAN GRANT How do we do that? Punish them for evolving? If
people didn't have a right to play God by creating them, we certainly don't have
a right to play God by causing another extinction.
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ Gentlemen, if you please. We don't have
time for a philosophical debate here. If we can contain the animals, we'll give
it a try, but my orders are to stabilize the area using any and all means
necessary.
ALAN GRANT Fine.
IAN MALCOLM Dr. Grant was right about how to find them. If
we can follow the rex, he'll lead us right to the Spinosaurus, but it will be
hard to remain inconspicuous if we follow him with an army. I suggest that we
send one person to track him.
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ Any suggestions as to who the one
person might be?
IAN MALCOLM
(indicating CLARK) The person who has been out
to get the rex from day one.
JEFFERY CLARK Me?
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ Him?
IAN MALCOLM If he's half the hunter his uncle is, then he
should have no problem. Do you feel up to it?
JEFFERY CLARK Of course I am, provided I get my things
back.
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ We'll see about that.
JEFFERY CLARK Also provided that I am the one who takes the
Tyrannosaur.
CPL. RICK TOWNSEND
(running from offscreen) General
Sanchez!
GEN. HORATIO SANCHEZ What is it, Townsend?
CPL. RICK TOWNSEND It's news from a village to the west.
There's been an attack.





PIRATES OF THE CARRIBEAN: DEAD MAN'S CHEST
by Ted Elliott & Terry Rossio
[view looking straight down at rolling swells, sound of wind and
thunder, then a low heartbeat]
Scene: PORT ROYAL
[teacups on a table in the rain]
[sheet music on music stands in the rain]
[bouquet of white orchids, Elizabeth sitting in the rain holding the
bouquet]
[men rowing, men on horseback, to the sound of thunder]
[EITC logo on flag blowing in the wind]
[many rowboats are entering the harbor]
[Elizabeth sitting alone, at a distance]
[marines running, kick a door in]
[a mule is seen on the left in the barn where the marines
enter]
[Liz looking over her shoulder]
[Elizabeth drops her bouquet]
[Will is in manacles, being escorted by red coats]
ELIZABETH SWANN Will...!
[Elizabeth runs to Will]
ELIZABETH SWANN Why is this happening? 
WILL TURNER I don't know. You look beautiful.
ELIZABETH SWANN I think it's bad luck for the groom to see the
bride before the wedding.
[marines cross their long axes to bar Governor from
entering]
[Beckett, in white hair and curls, is standing with
Mercer]
LORD CUTLER BECKETT Governor Weatherby Swann, it's been too
long.
LORD CUTLER BECKETT His Lord now... actually.
LORD CUTLER BECKETT In fact, I *do*. Mister Mercer! The warrant
for the arrest of one William Turner.
LORD CUTLER BECKETT Oh, is it? That's annoying. My mistake.
Arrest her.
ELIZABETH SWANN On what charges?
WILL TURNER No!
[Beckett takes another document from Mercer, who is standing with
Beckett, craggy face and pony tail]
LORD CUTLER BECKETT Ah-ha! Here's the one for William Turner. And
I have another one for a Mister James Norrington. Is he present?
ELIZABETH SWANN *What are the charges?*
LORD CUTLER BECKETT I don't believe that's the answer to the
question I asked.
WILL TURNER Lord Beckett! In the category of questions *not*
answered...
ELIZABETH SWANN We are under the jurisdiction of the King's
governor of Port Royal, and you will tell us what we are charged with. 
LORD CUTLER BECKETT For which the punishment, regrettably, is
*also* death. Perhaps you remember a certain pirate named Jack Sparrow.
ELIZABETH SWANN *Captain* Jack Sparrow.
LORD CUTLER BECKETT Captain Jack Sparrow. Yes, I thought you
might.
Scene: BLACK PEARL
[views of rigging ropes and blocks aboard a ship at
night]
[Gibbs walks the deck alone at night, singing and drinking from a
bottle]
GIBBS Fifteen men on a dead man's chest. Yo ho ho, and a *bottle*
of rum. Drink and the devil had done for the rest. Yo ho ho, and a *bottle* of rum.
Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha! 
[a bell tolls, Gibbs is interrupted from his drinking by the
sound]
[Gibbs looks up to see a flock of crows flying in the foggy night
sky]
Scene: TURKISH PRISON
[tolling of bells, camera pans to show the crows flying toward a coastal
island]
[pinnacle-like island off the coast at night, connected to the mainland
by thin, lighted bridge]
[cages with men inside line the bridge]
[prisoners are being marched across the bridge]
[a male prisoner with bloody legs is muttering, and is dragged across
the bridge by guards]
[a crow is seen reflected in the eye of one male prisoner in a cage, the
crow attacks and pecks his eye out, he screams]
[the prisoner who was being dragged is taken down a hatch-like door in
the ground, he also screams]
[rocky shoreline, lit with torches]
[men toss caskets into the sea]
[numerous caskets are floating out to sea, vertical streaks in the
distant clouds are seen]
[a crow lands on one casket, begins pecking at the top]
[sudden gunblast from inside the casket blows the crow away, along with
much wood]
[hand holding flintlock pistol emerges, pans about, points it at
audience for a moment]
[Jack breaks out of the top of the casket, puts his captain's hat
on]
JACK SPARROW Sorry, mate.
[Jack breaks the skeleton's leg off]
JACK SPARROW Mind if we make a little side trip? I didn't think
so.
[Jack uses the skeleton leg as an oar, rows toward the full moon and a
waiting ship in the distance to the right of the moon]
Scene: BLACK PEARL
[Jack arrives at the Black Pearl in his coffin rowboat]
[Gibbs holds out his hand to help Jack aboard, Jack puts the skeleton
leg in Gibbs' hand]
[Cotton drapes a coat onto Jack's back]
GIBBS Not *quite* according to plan.
JACK SPARROW Complications arose, ensued, were overcome.
GIBBS You got what you went in for, then?
JACK SPARROW Mm-hmm!
GIBBS Captain, I think the crew, meaning me as well, were
expecting something a bit more... *shiny*. What with the Isla de Muerta going all
pear shaped, reclaimed by the sea, and the treasure with it. 
LEECH And the Royal Navy chasing us all around the Atlantic. 
MARTY And the hurricane! Aye.
CREW Aye. Aye.
GIBBS All in all, it's seems some time since we did a speck of
honest pirating.
JACK SPARROW Shiny?
GIBBS Aye, shiny.
JACK SPARROW Is that how you're all feeling, then? Perhaps dear
old Jack is not serving your best interests as captain? COTTON'S PARROT: Awk!
Walk the plank! [Jack grabs his pistol and points it at the
bird]
JACK SPARROW What did the bird say?
LEECH Do not blame the bird. Show us what is on that piece of
cloth there. 
[the monkey snarls, seizes the cloth, scampers off with
it]
JACK SPARROW Ohhh!
[Jack attempts to shoot the monkey with his pistol, his pistol
misfires]
[Jack grabs a pistol from another crewman and blasts the monkey while
it's on the deck]
[the monkey drops the cloth, but is unharmed, and scurries into the
rigging]
GIBBS Know that don't do no good. 
JACK SPARROW It does me.
[Marty picks up the cloth that the monkey dropped]
MARTY It's a key!
JACK SPARROW No! Much more better. It is a *drawing* of a key. 
[Jack holds up the cloth, the crew crowd forward]
[Among the crew: Chinese man, black man with a black beard, white
bearded man with large black hat]
JACK SPARROW Gentlemen, what do keys do?
LEECH Keys... unlock... *things*? 
GIBBS And whatever this key unlocks, *inside* there's something
valuable. So, we're setting out to find whatever this key unlocks!
JACK SPARROW No! If we don't have the key, we can't open whatever
it is we don't have that it unlocks. So what purpose would be served in finding
whatever need be unlocked, which we don't have, without first having found the key
what unlocks it?
GIBBS So - We're going after this key!
JACK SPARROW You're not making any sense at all. Any more
questions?
MARTY So... Do we have a heading?
JACK SPARROW Hah! A heading. Set sail in a... mmm... a general...
in *that* way - direction. 
GIBBS Cap'n? 
JACK SPARROW Come on, snap to and make sail, you know how this
works. Come on, oy/quick, oy/quick, hey!
[Marty and Gibbs gather alone by the railing]
MARTY Have you noticed lately... The captain seems to be actin' a
bit strange... -er. 
GIBBS Settin' sail without knowing his own headin'? Somethin's
got Jack vexed. Mark my words, what bodes ill for Jack Sparrow bodes ill for us
all.
[the Black Pearl is shown at night in a thunderstorm]
Scene: PORT ROYAL: EITC HEADQUARTERS
[a painter is painting a detail on a mural of a world
map]
[a guard brings Will in manacles into Beckett's office]
GUARD Lord Beckett. The prisoner as ordered, Sir. 
LORD CUTLER BECKETT Those won't be necessary.
[Will's manacles are removed]
[Beckett pours some liquor]
LORD CUTLER BECKETT The East India Trading Company has need of
your services. We wish for you to act as our agent in a business transaction with
our mutual friend: Captain Sparrow.
WILL TURNER More acquaintance than friend. How do you know
him?
LORD CUTLER BECKETT We've had dealings in the past. And we've
each left our mark... on the other. 
WILL TURNER What mark did he leave on you? 
LORD CUTLER BECKETT By your efforts Jack Sparrow was set free. I
would like you to go to him, and recover a certain property in his possession.
WILL TURNER Recover. At the point of a sword?
LORD CUTLER BECKETT *Bargain*!
[Beckett goes over to a wooden box on a table and opens
it]
LORD CUTLER BECKETT Letters of Marque. You will offer what
amounts to a full pardon. Jack will be free, a privateer in the employ of
England.
WILL TURNER Somehow I doubt Jack will consider employment the
same as being free.
LORD CUTLER BECKETT Freedom. Jack Sparrow is a dying breed. The
world is shrinking, the blank pages of the map filled in. Jack must find his place
in the new world or perish. Not unlike you, Mister Turner. You and your fiance face
the hangman's noose. 
WILL TURNER So you get both Jack *and* the Black Pearl.
LORD CUTLER BECKETT The Black Pearl?
WILL TURNER The property you want that he possesses.
LORD CUTLER BECKETT A ship? Hardly. The item in question's
considerably smaller and far more valuable. Something Sparrow keeps on his person at
all times. A compass. Ah, you know it. Bring back that Compass, or there's no
deal.
Scene: BLACK PEARL
[Jack is using calipers on a map, using his left hand, a "P" brand mark
is seen on his right arm]
[an hourglass is in the background, Jack taps the
Compass]
[Jack looks in his bottle, turns the bottle upside-down, only a few
drops spill out]
JACK SPARROW Why is the rum always gone?
[Jack rises to his feet, staggers]
[Jack picks up his hat off the top of a globe]
JACK SPARROW Oh! *That's* why.
[Jack walks past the crew sleeping on hammocks, Jack is carrying a
lantern]
[some of the crew are snoring, and Cotton is among those
sleeping]
JACK SPARROW As you were, gents.
[Jack goes downstairs to the hold, an animal bleats, Jack unlocks the
door, goes in]
[Jack sees eerie filter feeder creatures festooning a beam of
wood]
[Jack spots a rack of bottles, with the bottles stored sideways like in
a wine rack]
JACK SPARROW Ah!
[Jack pulls a sideways bottle from the rack]
[Jack pours sand out of the bottle]
[Jack drops bottle of rum in fright, the bottle breaks on the
floor]
[Jack walks over to see who spoke]
JACK SPARROW Bootstrap. Bill Turner.
[Bootstrap looks up from where he's sitting on a barrel, crabs scuttle
across his face]
JACK SPARROW Is this a dream?
JACK SPARROW I thought not. If it were, there'd be rum.
[Bootstrap immediately hands Jack a bottle of rum]
[Jack pries the bottle from Bootstrap's hand with a crackling
sound]
JACK SPARROW I had some help retrieving the Pearl, by the
way.
[Jack tinks the lip of the bottle with his fingers, then blows across
the top of the bottle]
JACK SPARROW Your son.
[Jack takes a drink from the bottle]
JACK SPARROW And to what do I owe the pleasure of your carbuncle? 
JACK SPARROW Who?
JACK SPARROW Ah. So it's you, then. He shanghaied you into
service, eh? 
[a small hermit crab scuttles by Bootstrap, on top of the barrel where
Bootstrap sits]
[Bootstrap grabs the hermit crab, pops it into his mouth, and crunches
on it]
[Jack moves his mouth, jaw, and tongue around in revulsion while
watching]
[Jack hands the bottle back to Bootstrap]
JACK SPARROW It's funny what a man will do to forestall his final
judgment -
[Jack starts to walk off, but Bootstrap stands up at the same time and
intercepts Jack, blocking him]
JACK SPARROW Technic -
JACK SPARROW Yes, but the Flying Dutchman already *has* a
captain, so there's re -
JACK SPARROW Any idea when Jones might release said terrible
beastie? 
[Jack looks at the palm of his left hand, where a black spot boils into
view]
[Jack looks up, but Bootstrap has disappeared]
Scene: BLACK PEARL: ON DECK
[Jack runs across a wooden deck that has a shallow covering of
water]
JACK SPARROW On deck all hands! Make fast the bunt gasket! On
deck! Scurry! Scurry-on/Marty, I want movement!
JACK SPARROW *I want movement!* 
GIBBS Lift the skin up! 
JACK SPARROW All on deck! Run! And keep running! Run as if the
devil himself and itself is upon us! 
GIBBS Do we have a heading?
JACK SPARROW Ah! Ooh! Run! Land.
[Jack rises from where he was ducked behind the base of the mast, sees
Gibbs again]
JACK SPARROW Oh! Euh!
GIBBS Which port?
JACK SPARROW Didn't say port. I said land. Any land.
[the monkey in skeleton form swings down, grabs Jack's
hat]
JACK SPARROW Agh!
[the monkey snarls at Jack, Jack snarls back at the monkey, in
imitation]
[the monkey throws Jack's hat overboard]
GIBBS Jack's hat! Bring 'er about! 
JACK SPARROW No no! Leave it! Run! 
GIBBS Back to your stations! The lot o' ya!
[Jack stands stiffly in the shadows under some steps, between two
lighted windows]
[Gibbs walks up to Jack]
GIBBS Jack?
JACK SPARROW Shhh!
GIBBS For the love of mother and child, Jack, what's coming after
us? 
JACK SPARROW Nothing.
Scene: small fishing vessel
[Jack's hat floats toward a small fishing vessel around
sunrise]
[a Turkish crewmember pulls Jack's hat out of the water with a
hook]
[the first sailor tries the hat on, jokingly pretending to be a
captain]
TURKISH FISHERMAN Heh-heh-heh.tupayHey! Fo pes sa kapazun kapitan
de la mezande, huh?
GREEK FISHERMAN Etora. Fetsoran ipitos. Ferinte. arrive,
huh?
[the Greek sailor takes the hat, tries it on next]
GREEK FISHERMAN Ah! Vangas da eroro ###
[a large object is seeing moving underwater toward their vessel,
creating a disturbance on the ocean surface as it moves] kapitan
### Scene: ###
[a loud thumping sound occurs, the two sailors freeze in
fright]
[a third sailor sleeps on deck]
[one sailor presses the hat against the other's chest, indicating he
doesn't want it anymore]
Scene: Port Royal prison
[Will and the governor rapidly descend stone steps into the
prison]
[the guard at the bottom of the steps holds a long gun with a bayonette
on the end]
CARRUTHERS Here now. He can't be here.
CARRUTHERS Mister Swann, -
ELIZABETH SWANN Jack's Compass. What does Beckett want with
that?
WILL TURNER Does it matter? I'm to find Jack and convince him to
return to Port Royal. In exchange the charges against us will be dropped.
WILL TURNER Is that lack of faith in Jack, or in me?
ELIZABETH SWANN I have faith in you. Both of you. Where will you
find him? 
WILL TURNER Tortuga. I'll start there, and I won't stop searching
'til I find him. And then I intend to return here, to marry you. 
ELIZABETH SWANN Properly? 
WILL TURNER Eagerly, if you'll still have me.
ELIZABETH SWANN If it weren't for these bars I'd have you
already. 
[the governor accidentally knocks a candleholder off the
wall]
[the governor tosses the candleholder aside, onto the
floor]
ELIZABETH SWANN I'll wait for you.
WILL TURNER Keep a weather eye on the horizon.
[Will walks back up the prison steps]
Scene: Tortuga
WEATHERED SAILOR *Captain* Jack Sparrow? Owes me four dubloons.
Heard he was dead.  HALF-BLIND FISHERMAN: Singapore. That's what I heard. Drunk
with a smile on his face. Sure as the tide, Jack Sparrow... will turn up in Singapore.
[Scarlett is a redhead, Giselle is a blonde, both are standing
together, answering Will's questions]
GISELLE Jack Sparrow!
SCARLETT I haven't seen 'im in a month.
GISELLE When you find him, will you give him a message? 
[Giselle slaps Will in the face]
[a black man who is a shrimper is sitting on a dock, mending his
nets]
[in the background is a bunch of bananas on the dock, and a goat being
loaded aboard a ship]
SHRIMPER Cannot say about Jack Sparrow. But dere's a island, just
south of de straits, where I trade spice for... mmm... delicious long pork. Cannot
say about Jack. But you find a ship dere. A ship wit' black sails. 
Scene: CANNIBAL ISLAND: beach
[Black Pearl seen stranded on a beach, through a
spyglass]
SHRIMPER My brother will take you ashore. 
[the shrimper's brother is rowing Will toward the
shore]
[the rower stops rowing]
WILL TURNER What's wrong? The beach is right there.
SHRIMPER'S BROTHER: ?: Ne bougeais pas, c'est trop dangereux. WILL
TURNER What? SHRIMPER'S BROTHER: ?: Je ne peux, c'est trop
dangereux, j'avais le dit. Bon voyage, monsieur. [Will jumps off the
rowboat, swims ashore, wearing his sword]
[aerial view, flying over jungle toward beach, showing Will wading
ashore]
[Will walks alongside the Black Pearl, which is tied with ropes to
stakes in the sand]
WILL TURNER Jack! Jack Sparrow!
WILL TURNER Marty! Cotton! Anybody? 
[Will wanders into the palm jungle bordering the beach]
[Cotton's parrot flutters up and lands atop a palm
stump] COTTON'S PARROT: Awk! WILL TURNER Ah!
A familiar face! COTTON'S PARROT: Rawk! Don't eat me! WILL
TURNER I'm not gonna eat you. COTTON'S PARROT: Don't eat me! No!
Don't eat me! Akkk! [Will finds Gibbs' husk canteen hanging on a plant,
trailing a long string]
WILL TURNER Gibbs.
[Will follows the string attached to the canteen, over toward a large
tree]
[human eyes open in the background, from a man camouflaged against a
nearby tree]
[the camouflaged cannibal shouts and jumps out from the tree at
Will]
[Will is yanked back by a snare, and dangles upside-down from a
rope]
[cannibals charge out of the bushes from all directions, Will keeps them
at bay with his sword]
WILL TURNER Euh! Unh! Ya! Come on! Let's go! Euh! Ya! Come on!
Who wants it? Unh! I could do this all day! Euh! Euh! Hah!
[a cannibal with a bone through his nose uses a blowgun to shoot a dart
into Will's neck]
[Will drops his sword to the ground]
Scene: CANNIBAL ISLAND: throne
[aerial view of flying over the island's mountaintops, toward hilltop
throne area]
[Will is carried while hung from a bamboo pole, his head hanging
back]
[human skulls line the path along which Will is taken]
[Will is carried over a roap bridge]
[one cannibal is wearing an English white wig and using a Western style
fan] ?: Hurry-hurry tan daga! [Will is brought
before Jack, who sits on a throne]
[the music stops, Jack pops his eyes open, revealing that his closed
eyelids were painted to look like open eyes]
WILL TURNER Jack? Jack Sparrow! I can honestly say I'm glad to
see you!
[Jack says nothing, arises from his throne, walks over to
Will]
[Jack pushes one finger into Will's shoulder, as if testing how much
meat Will has on him]
WILL TURNER Jack! It's me! Will Turner!
JACK SPARROW ?: Wa-say kohn.  ?: Een dah-lah. Eeseepi.
CANNIBAL CROWD Eeseepi.
WILL TURNER Tell 'em to let me down.
JACK SPARROW Kay-lay lam. Lam piki-piki. Lam eensy weensy. Lam
say-say... eunuchy. Snip-snip. 
CANNIBAL CROWD Ahhh... eunuchy!
[Jack begins to walk away, as if disinterested, his Compass hangs from
his waist]
WILL TURNER Jack! The Compass! That's all I need, Elizabeth is in
danger. We were arrested for trying to help *you*. She faces the gallows!
[Jack halts, pauses, turns around and casually walks
back]
JACK SPARROW Say-say lam shoop-shoop sha smalay-lama shoo-koo.
Savvy? Ball licky-licky. Ball licky-licky!
CANNIBAL CROWD Ball licky-licky!
[the cannibals begin chanting, repetitiously]
CANNIBAL CROWD Boom-shoo-boom, boom-shoo-boom,
boom-shoo-boom...
JACK SPARROW Save me! 
WILL TURNER Jack, what did you tell them? No! What about
Elizabeth? *Jack...!*
[Will is carried across a rope bridge, still hanging underneath the
bamboo pole] Port Royal [Elizabeth sits alone in
her prison cell, male prisoners in the next cell whistle and beckon
her]
PRISONERS ...we don't bite...Come on...
Prisoners Where you goin'...?)
ELIZABETH SWANN Why don't you tell me what's happening? 
ELIZABETH SWANN No! Will has gone to find Jack!
ELIZABETH SWANN He's a better man than you give him credit for. 
[a horse and carriage are waiting, the governor opens the door to the
carriage for Elizabeth]
ELIZABETH SWANN A fair trial for Will ends in a hanging.
[the horse and carriage quickly ride off]
[the horse and carriage arrive at a dock]
[Captain Hawkins stands silently on the dock facing out to
sea]
[the captain's body soon falls, revealing Mercer, who was standing
behind the body, long knife in hand]
MERCER Evening, Governor. Shame, huh? He was carryin' this. It's
a letter to the King. It's from *you*. 
[horses and soldiers arrive to cut off the governor from fleeing from
the dock]
[the carriage door is opened, but the carriage is empty, Elizabeth is
gone]
MERCER Where is she?
[Mercer grabs the governor by the lapels, pushes him up against the side
of the carriage]
PORT ROYAL EITC headquarters
[darkened room]
[Beckett walks in from the balcony, carrying a lantern]
[Beckett walks to a table, opens a wooden box, finds the Letters of
Marque missing]
LORD CUTLER BECKETT No doubt you've discovered that loyalty is no
longer the currency of the realm, as your father believes.
[Elizabeth slips into the dark room from an interior door, hands held
behind her]
ELIZABETH SWANN Then what is?
LORD CUTLER BECKETT I'm afraid that *currency* is the currency of
the realm.
ELIZABETH SWANN I expect then that we can come to some sort of
understanding. I'm here to negotiate.
LORD CUTLER BECKETT I'm listening.
[Elizabeth pulls a pistol, points it at Beckett's head]
LORD CUTLER BECKETT I'm listening *intently*.
ELIZABETH SWANN These Letters of Marque, they are signed by the
King?
LORD CUTLER BECKETT Yes, and they're not valid until they bear my
signature and my seal.
ELIZABETH SWANN Or else I would not still be here. You sent Will
to get you the Compass owned by Jack Sparrow. It will do you no good. 
LORD CUTLER BECKETT Do explain.
ELIZABETH SWANN I have been to Isla de Muerta, I have seen the
treasure myself. There is something you need to know.
LORD CUTLER BECKETT Ah, I see. *You* think the Compass leads only
to the Isla de Muerta, and so you hope to *save* me from an evil fate. But you
mustn't worry. I care not for cursed Aztec gold. My desires are not so provincial.
There's more than one chest of value in these waters. So perhaps you may wish to
enhance your offer. 
[Elizabeth cocks her pistol]
[Beckett signs the document]
ELIZABETH SWANN Consider into your calculations that you robbed
me of my wedding night.
LORD CUTLER BECKETT So I did. A marriage interrupted. Or fate
intervenes. You make great efforts to ensure Jack Sparrow's freedom. 
ELIZABETH SWANN These aren't going to Jack.
LORD CUTLER BECKETT Oh really. To ensure Mister Turner's freedom,
then? I'll still want that Compass. Consider that in your calculations.
Longboat
[Ragetti appears to be reading a Bible in the back of the longboat, but
the Bible is upside-down]
RAGETTI Well I say it was divine providence what escaped us from
jail.
PINTEL And I say... it was me bein' *clever*. Ain't that right,
poochie?
[the dog goes to the bow, looking forward, keys in its
mouth]
RAGETTI ?: Well how'dya know it weren't/wasn't divine providence
what inspired you to *be* clever? Anyways, I ain't stealin' no ship. 
PINTEL It ain't stealin'. It's *salvagin'*! And since when did
you care? 
RAGETTI Since we're not immortal no more. We gotta take care of
our immortal souls. 
PINTEL You know you can't read.
RAGETTI It's the Bible. You get credit for trying. 
PINTEL Pretendin' to read the Bible's a *lie*! *That's* a mark
against ya! Look! There it is! 
[the dog jumps overboard and swims toward shore]
RAGETTI What's got into *'im*? 
PINTEL Must've seen a catfish. Heh-heh-heh-heh-heh-heh.
[both laugh, the dog reaches shore and looks back at
them]
RAGETTI Stupid mongrel!
[the dog on shore shakes off water, looks back at them, still holding
keys in its mouth]
[their boat capsizes in a wave, they wade ashore]
Scene: CANNIBAL ISLAND: beach
PINTEL Come on! Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha. Ha-ha-ha-ha... 
###PINTEL: It's ours for the taking! RAGETTI Tide's comin', that
should help. Well, salvagin' is saving, in a manner of speaking.
PINTEL There's the truth of *it*! ###
[cannibal drums sound]
RAGETTI Suppose we be'er... save it as soon as we can. What with
our souls in such a vulnerable state, and all.
PINTEL Amen to that.
[the dog barks]
Scene: CANNIBAL ISLAND: throne
[cannibal drums are pounding]
[Jack is on the throne, a cannibal hands Jack a necklace of human
toes]
JACK SPARROW Thank you.
[Jack looks at the toe, bites off part of the nail to trim
it]
[Jack spits out the piece of nail, reexamines the toe]
Scene: CANNIBAL ISLAND: cages
[two spherical cages of six Black Pearl crewmen apiece hang from ropes
over a deep chasm]
[Will is in the same cage with Gibbs, Cotton, Marty, and two
others]
WILL TURNER Why would he do this to us? If Jack is their
chief.
GIBBS Aye, the Pelegostos made Jack their chief. But he only
remains chief as long as he *acts* like a chief. 
WILL TURNER So he had no choice. He's a captive then as much as
the rest of us.
GIBBS Worse... as it turns out. See, the Pelegostos believe that
Jack is a *god* in human form, and they intend to do him the honor of releasing him
from his fleshy prison.
[Cotton bites Gibbs' fingers to illustrate]
GIBBS Argh! They'll roast him and eat him.
WILL TURNER Where's the rest of the crew?
GIBBS These cages we're in... weren't built 'til *after* we got
here.
[Will was gripping the bars made of human bones, but quickly pulls his
hand away]
GIBBS The feast is about to begin. Jack's life will end... when
the drums stop.
WILL TURNER Well, we can't just sit here and wait then, can
we?
Scene: CANNIBAL ISLAND: throne
[cannibal drums are pounding]
JACK SPARROW No/Oup! No no! Oy!/Wait! No no! More wood! Big fire!
*Big* fire! I am chief! Want big fire! Come on!
JACK SPARROW Oy!/Boy! Maboogie snickel-snickel. Tout de suite!
Come on! More wood!
[the cannibal standing next to Jack leaves to put more wood on the
fire]
[the cannibals put large pieces of wood on the fire]
[the cannibals turn around to find that Jack is gone]
Scene: CANNIBAL ISLAND: Jack
[Jack is running across a foot bridge]
[Jack runs up to a cliff edge, totters at the edge, looking
down]
[Jack examines a length of bamboo pole he finds lying
there]
[Jack goes into a hut, sees various supplies, the sound of buzzing flies
is heard]
[Jack picks up a rope, starts to exit, halts, looks back
inside]
[Jack goes back in, picks up a can of paprika with the EITC logo on the
bottom]
[Jack walks outside the hut, the entire tribe is waiting silently
outside, staring at him]
JACK SPARROW Oh bugger.
[Jack drops his coil of rope, sprinkles paprika on his
armpits]
JACK SPARROW Little seasoning. Eh?
[Jack is now tied up to a bamboo pole and hanging face down over a pile
of wood]
[cannibals are dancing wildly]
JACK SPARROW Well done.
Scene: CANNIBAL ISLAND: cages
[the men begin swinging the cages with increasingly wide
arcs]
[both cages finally come within reach of the cliff, they grab vines and
hang on to the cliff]
GIBBS Put your legs through, start to climb! Agh!
WILL TURNER Come on men! It'll take all of-us/the-rest to crew
the Black Pearl!
LEECH Actually, you won't need everyone. 'Bout six would do!
Ohhh... dear. 
[Gibbs nods]
WILL TURNER Hurry!
[each cage group begins racing against each other up the
cliff] Come on! Go! Go! Go! Come on! Give it all you got!
[a cannibal crosses the rope bridge] Hey! Hey ###
WILL TURNER Stop! Stop! Stop! Shhh! Shhh!
[the cannibal crosses rope bridge]
LEECH Shhh!
[one cage group decides to take the risk of climbing, despite the nearby
cannibal] What's he doing? LEEECH Stop!
...
[one of the men in the climbing cage grabs a coral snake from the cliff
instead of a vine]
[p. 50]
[when the man holding the snake lets go, their cage falls, the rope
breaks, and their cage falls to the bottom]
WILL TURNER Move!
CANNIBAL ISLAND throne
[drums pounding, a cannibal crosses a bridge to the bonfire
area] Ahhh! Fye-fye! CANNIBAL CROWD Ahhh!
Fye-fye!
[the cannibal from the bridge arrives to tell the tribe of the men in
cages escaping] Da latazo! Da litozo! Hay la paka say-say.
[the crowd stands silently, not knowing whether to stay or to chase
the escapees]
JACK SPARROW Well, go on! Go get them! Hay ala!
CANNIBAL CROWD Hay ala! Ala, ala!
[cannibals run off to chase after men who escaped from
cages]
[in their haste one cannibal drops a lighted torch need the pile of wood
under Jack]
JACK SPARROW No! No no! Oy! No no!
[the edges of the wood begin to catch fire]
JACK SPARROW Not good.
[Jack blows futilely at the igniting wood]
Scene: CANNIBAL ISLAND: cage
[the remaining cage reaches the top of the cliff]
WILL TURNER Cut it loose! Find a rock!
[Will manages to sever the cage's cable by hammering it with a
rock]
[the men in Will's cage are unable to the cage open in time before the
cannibals will reach them]
WILL TURNER Roll the cage!
[the cage rolls down the hill]
[the cage falls over the edge of a tiny cliff]
[the cage rolls down the hill, rolls up a coconut palm trunk, crashes to
the ground, unbroken]
WILL TURNER Lift the cage! Hurry!
GIBBS Come on, men! Lift it like a lady's skirt!
[the men begin running with their legs protruding from the cage, holding
up the cage]
[Marty's short legs make a running motion but are unable to reach the
ground] Come on! Scene: CANNIBAL ISLAND: hut
[Jack is running off with the bamboo pole tied to his
back]
[Jack encounters the cannibal boy, standing silently with a fork and a
knife, one in each hand]
[Jack grabs the knife from the boy, and begins cutting his rope
off]
[two cannibal women appear]
[Jack charges, but the bamboo pole on his back spears a coconut in a
pile near the cliff edge]
[Jack turns suddenly, which flings the coconut off the end of the pole
into a cannibal's face]
[the cannibal slowly lifts the dripping coconut off his face, scowling
at Jack]
Scene: CANNIBAL ISLAND: cage
[the cage rolls over a ledge into a small chasm holding a
river]
[cannibals throw spears and shoot arrows at the men in the water, the
men swim underwater]
GIBBS This way, lads! 
Scene: CANNIBAL ISLAND: Jack
[the two cannibal women throw numerous fruits at Jack while the pole is
still on his back]
[several of the fruits become impaled along the pole, making Jack look
like he's part of a shish-ka-bob]
CANNIBAL BOY Da litozo! Da litozo!
[Jack pole vaults across the chasm, barely lands on the other edge
safely]
[but the fruit slides down to the end of his pole, putting weight on the
end over the chasm]
[Jack falls into the chasm, screaming]
[Jack's pole catches between the two walls of a chasm]
[two native women watch Jack fall into the chasm, with
disinterest]
CANNIBAL WOMAN A-geev-nee. Uh-boogie?
[the two cannibal women walk off, disinterested]
JACK SPARROW Bugger.
[Jack's pole slips loose, he falls into the chasm,
screaming]
[As Jack falls through the first rope bridge, the rope comes undone but
is still attached to the bamboo pole and to Jack]
[Jack is hung upside-down in the chasm when the bamboo pole
catches]
[Jack falls through a total of six rope bridges]
[Jack lands on his back on grass]
[bamboo pole comes down at him, spears the ground near his
head]
[fruits tumble down afterwards]
Scene: CANNIBAL ISLAND: beach
[only Ragetti and Cotton's parrot are aboard the Black Pearl, Pintel is
on the beach below]
PINTEL Pull-loose/Unloose the mooring lines! The mooring
lines!
[the monkey chatters, grabs Ragetti's wooden eye]
RAGETTI Thief/Thing! Little hairy thief/thing! Give it back!
Don't bite it!
PINTEL Unloose the mooring lines!
RAGETTI He's got me eye! He won't give it back!
PINTEL Well, how'd you get it back last time?
GIBBS Excellent work! Work's half done!
PINTEL We done it for you! Knowin' you'd be comin' back for
us.
GIBBS Make/Making ready tosail/cast-off ###, boy.
WILL TURNER What about Jack? I won't leave without him.
JACK SPARROW Hey! 
[Jack appears at a distance, running down the beach toward the crew and
ship]
[a crowd of cannibals suddenly run down on the beach behind Jack,
pursuing him]
WILL TURNER Time to go. 
GIBBS *Cast off those lines!*
[Jack screams while running down the beach]
GIBBS Make ready to cast off! ###!
[the dog is down the beach with Jack, barking at him]
JACK SPARROW Good doggie! Doggie. 
[Jack grabs ahold of rigging on the side of the departing
ship]
JACK SPARROW *Alas*, my children! This is the day you shall
always remember as the day that you almost -
[big wave splashes Jack from behind]
JACK SPARROW ...Captain Jack... Sparrow.
[the crowd of cannibals falls silent as the ship
leaves]
[the dog barks excitedly at the departing ship]
[all heads in the crowd of cannibals turn toward the
dog]
[the dog falls silent, whimpers, then flees back down the
beach]
[the cannibals chase the dog, shouting]
Scene: Black Pearl
GIBBS Let's put some distance between us and this island, and
head out to open sea.
JACK SPARROW Yes to the first, yes to the second, but only
insofar as we keep to the shallows as much as possible.
GIBBS Uh, that seems a bit contradictory, Captain. 
JACK SPARROW I have every faith in your reconciliatory
navigational skills, Master Gibbs, now where is that monkey? I want to shoot
*something*.
[the monkey screams, drops Ragetti's eye, Ragetti grabs his eye, spits
on it, rubs the spit around on it]
[the monkey chatters and climbs into the rigging]
[Jack is ready to shoot the monkey with his pistol]
WILL TURNER Jack.
JACK SPARROW Ah.
WILL TURNER Elizabeth is in danger.
JACK SPARROW Have you considered keeping a more watchful eye on
'er? Maybe just lock her up somewhere. 
WILL TURNER She *is* locked up, in a prison, bound to hang for
helping *you*!
JACK SPARROW There comes a time when one must take responsibility
for one's mistakes.
[Will pulls a sword from the waistband of a pirate who is turned around,
points it at Jack]
WILL TURNER I need that Compass of yours, Jack. I must trade it
for her freedom.
[Jack pushes Will's sword aside]
JACK SPARROW Mister Gibbs!
GIBBS Cap'n.
JACK SPARROW We have a need to travel upriver.
GIBBS By need, d'you mean a... trifling need, uh/a... fleeting,
as in say in a passing fancy?
JACK SPARROW No, a... resolute and unyielding need.
WILL TURNER What we need to do is make sail for Port Royal with
all haste.
JACK SPARROW William... I shall trade you the Compass, if you
will help me... to find *this*. 
WILL TURNER You want me to find this?
JACK SPARROW No. *You* want you to find this. Because the finding
this finds you incapacitorially finding and/or locating and your discovering the
detecting of a way to save your dolly/dotty belle ol'... what's-her-face. Savvy? 
WILL TURNER This... is going to save Elizabeth?
JACK SPARROW How much do you know about Davy Jones?
WILL TURNER Not much.
JACK SPARROW Yeah, it's gonna save Elizabeth.
Scene: Edinburgh Trader
[a crewman swabbing the deck happens to notice a white dress tucked in a
corner, pulls it out]
[the crewmen are arguing loudly about the newfound
dress]
BELLAMY What's all this? If you both fancy the dress, you'll just
have to share, and wear it one after the other. 
BURSAR It's not like that, Sir. This ship is haunted. 
BELLAMY Is it now? 'N' you? 
QUARTERMASTER The... female presence... amongst us, yes... all
the men... they can feel it. The ghost of a lady, widowed before her marriage, I
figure it. Searching for her husband, lost at sea. A virgin, too, likely as not. And
that bodes ill by all accounts.
BURSAR I say... that we throw the dress overboard, and we hope
the spirit finds it. 
QUARTERMASTER No! That - that will just anger the spirit, Sir.
What we need to do is find out what the spirit needs, and then just get it back! 
BELLAMY Enough! Enough! You're a pair of superstitious goats and
it's got the best of you. Now this appears to be no more as we have a stowaway
aboard. A young woman, by the look of it. I want you to search the ship and find
'er. Oh, and uh... she's probably naked. 
[the crew enthusiastically rushes off in search of the
stowaway] Pantano River [aerial view of the mouth
of the Pantano River, two longboats are beginning their way up the
river]
[the longboats are in a swampy area with twisted roots]
WILL TURNER Why is Jack afraid of the open ocean?
GIBBS Well, if you believe such things, there's a beast does the
bidding of Davy Jones. A fearsome creature with giant tentacles that suction your
face clean off. And drag an entire ship past the crushing darkness. The Kraken!
[Marty turns around at mention of the word, Pintel and Ragetti look at
each other]
GIBBS They say the stench of its breath is like - ooh! Imagine:
The last thing you know on God's green earth is the roar of the Kraken, and the
reeking odor of a thousand rotting corpses. If you believe such things. 
WILL TURNER And the key will spare him that?
GIBBS Now that's the very question Jack wants answered. Bad
enough even to go visit... *Her*.
WILL TURNER Her?
GIBBS Aye.
BAYOU Tia's shack
[bayou with fireflies, and an iguana on a tree trunk on the
left]
[the iguana eats a firefly with a quick slurping sound]
[people are occasionally seen standing quietly in the darkness among the
trees]
JACK SPARROW No worries, mates. Tia Dalma and I go way back.
Thick as thieves. Nigh inseparable we are. Were. Have been. Before. 
GIBBS I'll watch your back.
JACK SPARROW It's me front I'm worried about. Mind the boat.
GIBBS Mind the boat.
WILL TURNER Mind the boat.
PINTEL Mind the boat.
MARTY Mind the boat. COTTON'S PARROT: Awk! Mind the boat!
[Cotton is left alone in the longboat]
[Jack cautiously enter's Tia's shack, pushing the door open
slowly]
[near the inside of the shack door hangs a live snake, moving
slowly]
[Tia is sitting at a table, looks up from her crab claws, sees Jack in
the doorway]
TIA DALMA Jack Sparrow! 
JACK SPARROW Tia Dalma!
TIA DALMA I always know de wind was goin' blow you back to me one
day. 
[Tia sees Will standing in the doorway, goes up to him]
TIA DALMA You. You have a touch of... destiny about *you*,
William Turner.
WILL TURNER You know me?
TIA DALMA You want to know *me*.
JACK SPARROW There'll be no knowing here. We've come for help and
we're not leaving without it.
JACK SPARROW I thought *I* knew you.
TIA DALMA Not so well as I had hoped. Come.
JACK SPARROW Come.
TIA DALMA What... service... may I do you? Hmmm? You know I
demand payment.
JACK SPARROW I brought payment.
[Jack whistles once, a crewmember brings in the monkey in a
cage]
JACK SPARROW Look!
[Jack cocks his pistol, shoots the monkey, the bullet has no effect, but
the monkey chatters in fright]
JACK SPARROW An undead monkey! Top that!
[Tia lifts the cage door, the monkey scampers off]
GIBBS No! You've no idea how long it took us to catch that. 
TIA DALMA The payment is fair.
JACK SPARROW We're looking for this. And what it goes to.
TIA DALMA The Compass you bartered from me. It cannot lead you to
dis? 
JACK SPARROW Maybe. Why?
TIA DALMA Ayeee... Jack Sparrow does not know what he wants!
Or... do know, but are loathe to claim it as your own. Your key go to a chest, and
it is what lay inside the chest you seek, don't it? 
GIBBS What *is* inside?
PINTEL Gold! Jewels? Unclaimed properties of a valuable nature? 
RAGETTI Nothing... bad, I hope.
[a jar of eyeballs is hanging next to Ragetti's face as he
speaks]
TIA DALMA You know of... Davy Jones, yes? A man of de sea. A
great sailor, until he ran afoul of dat which vex all men.
WILL TURNER What vexes all men?
TIA DALMA What, indeed.
GIBBS The sea?
PINTEL Sums!
RAGETTI Dichotomy of good and evil.
JACK SPARROW A *woman*.
TIA DALMA A wo-*man*. He fell in love.
GIBBS No-no-no-no, I heard it was the *sea* he fell in love
with.
TIA DALMA Same story, different versions, and all are true. See,
it was a *woman*, as changing, and harsh, and untamable as the sea. Him never
stopped loving her. But the pain it cause 'im was too much to live wid. But not
enough to cause him to die.
WILL TURNER What... exactly did he put into the chest?
TIA DALMA Him heart.
RAGETTI Literally, or figuratively?
PINTEL He couldn't li'erally put his heart in a chest! Could
he?
TIA DALMA It was not wort' feeling what... small fleeting joy
life brings, and so... he carved out him heart, lock it away in a chest, and hide de
chest from de world. De keys, he keep wid him at all times.
WILL TURNER You knew this.
JACK SPARROW I did not. I didn't know where the key was. But now
we do. So all that's left is to climb aboard the Flying Dutchman, grab the key, you
go back to Port Royal and save your bonnie lass, hey!
TIA DALMA Let me see your hand.
[Jack shows his right hand is untouched, but Tia unwraps the bandage on
his left hand]
[the black spot on Jack's left hand is revealed]
GIBBS Uhhh! The black spot!
[Gibbs quickly wipes his hands on his chest, spins around once to the
left, and spits] Black spot! Black spot! [Pintel
and Ragetti copy Gibbs' ritual, in synchrony]
JACK SPARROW My eyesight's as good as ever, just so you know. 
[pushing aside cloth door beads, Tia goes into a back room, and searches
for something]
TIA DALMA I am justMy little ###, where are you? ###
[Jack steals a ring off of one of Tia's tables, beside the ring is a
silver locket]
[Tia comes back with an object from the back room]
TIA DALMA Davy Jones cannot make port. Cannot step on land but
once every ten years. Land is where you are safe, Jack Sparrow. And so you will
carry land wid you... 
[Tia hands Jack a jar of dirt]
JACK SPARROW Dirt. This is a jar of dirt.
TIA DALMA Yes?
JACK SPARROW Is the... jar of dirt going to help?
TIA DALMA If you don' want it, give it back.
JACK SPARROW No. 
TIA DALMA Den it helps.
WILL TURNER It seems... we have a need to find the Flying
Dutchman.
[Tia is sitting, she holds several crab shells between her cupped hands
and closes her eyes]
TIA DALMA A touch... of destiny!
[Tia throws the crab claws down on the table to see how they
fall]
[fade to aerial view of rocky islands whose positions match the
positions of the crab claws] Black Pearl [pan
beyond the rocks to the Black Pearl just offshore, in stormy
weather]
[the Black Pearl crew look at the scuttled ship on the
rocks]
WILL TURNER That's the Flying Dutchman? She doesn't look like
much.
JACK SPARROW Neither do you. Do *not* underestimate her.
[Jack gives Gibbs a meaningful glance, elbows Gibbs]
GIBBS Must've run afoul of the reef.
JACK SPARROW So what's your plan, then?
WILL TURNER I row over, search the ship until I find your bloody
key. 
JACK SPARROW And if there are crewmen?
WILL TURNER I cut down anyone in my path.
JACK SPARROW I like it. Simple, easy to remember.
RAGETTI Your chariot awaits you, sire! Ha, ha-ha-ha, ha-ha!
JACK SPARROW Hey! If you *do* happen to get captured, just say
Jack Sparrow sent you to settle his debt! Might save your life!
RAGETTI Bon voyage! Ha-ha-ha!
JACK SPARROW Douse the lamps.
[Marty douses a lamp, then Cotton douses a lamp, then Pintel douses a
lamp]
[Will sets off in a rowboat, alone, toward the scuttled
ship]
SCUTTLED SHIP before attack
[Will goes aboard the ship, lantern in hand]
[Will passes one dead crewman at deck level, proped up behind net-like
rigging]
[Will comes across a wounded sailor, who seems to be in
shock]
[the wounded sailor is pulling on a pulley desperately, muttering to
himself]
WOUNDED SAILOR ...up the...
WILL TURNER Sailor!
WOUNDED SAILOR ...the stench...capsized...
WILL TURNER Sailor!
WOUNDED SAILOR ...bring a...
WILL TURNER There's no use. You've run aground.
WOUNDED SAILOR No! Beneath us! Foul breath!
[behind Will, a crewmember's body falls from a height, splashing into
the water]
[Will goes to investigate]
WILL TURNER Hey! Hey!
[Will turns the man's body over to see his face]
[the man's face is gone, his face is just a puckered piece of skin,
which bulges outward]
[the real Flying Dutchman suddenly rises from the sea, nearby the
scuttled ship]
[the sea creature-like crew emerge from the surfaces of the Flying
Dutchman]
[crewmembers from the Flying Dutchman attack the remaining crew of the
scuttled ship]
GREENBEARD Down on your marrowbones, and pray. 
[Will engages in a swordfight against several invaders]
[Will dips his sword in oil, causing it to flame, and waves it at the
men surrounding him]
WILL TURNER Get back! Back!
[Will slices open the stomach of one of the invaders, fish spill out of
it onto the deck]
[Will battles the invading crewmembers, but one of them knocks Will
unconscious] Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha. SCUTTLED
SHIP after attack
[the prisoners of the scuttled ship cower in fear, lined up, sitting in
a row on deck along the railing]
[Jack is at the end of the row of five survivors total, on the
right-side when facing the survivors]
[Davy Jones stomps aboard with his peg leg, underwater view of his
departing feet]
[Maccus is on deck, turned so that his back is shown, showing lobster
legs on his back]
MACCUS Five men still alive. The rest have moved on. 
[Jones pauses to clench his left hand, which is a large lobster
claw]
[Jones casually lights a pipe in front of one of the cowering
crewmen]
DAVY JONES Do you fear death? Do you fear that dark abyss? All
your deeds laid bare. All your sins punished. I can offer you... an escape-uh.
CHAPLAIN Don't listen to him! 
[Jones walks over to the chaplain, takes the chaplain's head in his
claw]
DAVY JONES Do you not fear death? 
CHAPLAIN I'll take my chances, Sir.
DAVY JONES To the depths.
[the chaplain's throat is slit, two crewmembers throw his body
overboard] Ah, ha-ha-ha...! [unidentified
crewman] Cold blooded - ! DAVY JONES Life is
cruel. Why should the afterlife be any *different*? I offer you a choice. Join my
crew, and postpone the judgment. One hundred years before the mast. Will ye
serve?
HELMSMAN I - I will, serve. 
DAVY JONES Grand. 
[Jones looks pleased, then sees Will at the end of the line of
people]
[Jones stomps over to Will]
DAVY JONES *You* are neither dead nor dying. What is your purpose
here?
WILL TURNER Jack Sparrow sent me to settle his debt.
DAVY JONES What is your purpose here?
WILL TURNER Jack Sparrow. He sent me to settle his debt.
DAVY JONES Huh! Did he, now? I'm sorely tempted to accept that
offer. 
[through a spyglass, Jack sees Jones turn to look directly at
him] Black Pearl [suddenly Jones is standing aboard
the Black Pearl, directly in front of Jack and his spyglass]
[Cotton and Gibbs have knives to their throats from other Flying
Dutchman crewmembers who teleported over]
JACK SPARROW Oh.
DAVY JONES You have a debt to pay. You've been captain of the
Black Pearl for thirteen years. *That* was our agreement.
JACK SPARROW Technically, I was only captain for two years, then
I was viciously mutinied upon.
DAVY JONES Then you were a poor captain, but a *captain*
nonetheless! Have you not introduced yourself all these years as *Captain* Jack
Sparrow? 
JACK SPARROW You have my payment. One soul to serve on your ship
is already over there.
DAVY JONES One soul is not equal to another.
JACK SPARROW Aha! So we've established my proposal is sound in
principle, now we're just haggling over price. 
DAVY JONES Price? Pttt!
JACK SPARROW Just how many souls do you think my soul is
worth?
DAVY JONES One hundred souls, three days-uh.
JACK SPARROW You're a diamond, mate. Send me back the boy, I'll
get started right off. 
[Maccus blocks Jack from exiting]
DAVY JONES I keep the boy. A good-faith payment. That leaves you
only ninety-nine more to go. Ha ha! Ha ha! Ha ha! 
JACK SPARROW Have you not met Will Turner? He's noble, heroic,
*terrific* soprano. Worth at least four... maybe three and a half. And did I happen
to mention... he's in love. With a girl. Due to be married. Betrothed. Dividing him
from her and her from him... would only be half as cruel as actually allowing them
be joined in holy matrimony. Aye?
DAVY JONES I keep the boy. Ninety-nine souls-uh. But I wonder,
Sparrow, can you live with this? Can you condemn an innocent man - a friend-uh - to
a lifetime of servitude, in your name while you roam free?
JACK SPARROW Yep! I'm good with it. Should we seal it in blood? I
mean... mm-mm - ink?
[Jones grabs Jack's hand, resulting in a squishy sound]
JACK SPARROW Uh!
DAVY JONES Three days. Three days.
[Pintel whimpers, with a knife held to his neck from a crewmember of
Jones' ship]
[Jack looks at his hand, it's covered with slime, but the black spot
disappears under the effect of the slime]
JACK SPARROW Oh, Mr. Gibbs.
GIBBS Aye.
JACK SPARROW Uh, I feel sullied and unusual. 
GIBBS And how do you intend to harvest these ninety-nine souls in
three days?
JACK SPARROW Fortunately, he was mum as the condition in which
these souls need be.
GIBBS Ah... Tortuga!
JACK SPARROW Tortuga.
Scene: Edinburgh Trader
[inside a cabin aboard the Edinburgh Trader, Captain Bellamy is throwing
documents down on the table]
BELLAMY It's an outrage. Port tariffs, berthing fees, *wharf*
handling, and heaven help us, pilotage. Are we all to work for the East India
Trading Company, then? 
QUARTERMASTER I'm afraid, Sir... Tortuga is the only free port
left in these waters.
BELLAMY A *pirate* port is what you mean. Well, I'm sorry. An
honest sailor is what I am. I make my living fair, and I sleep well each night,
thank you.
[a white dress floats by the cabin window, outside]
BURSAR S-S-Sir!
[they all rush to the window of the cabin and look out]
[they all see the dress float by the cabin window, on its second
pass]
[one crewman gasps]
[the men go outside to see the dress that was floating by the
window]
[the dress floats like a ghost, its left arm raised as if
pointing]
BURSAR She wants you to... do something. 
BELLAMY She's tryna give a sign. 
[the dress sweeps over a lantern, knocking it over and part of the deck
ignites]
BELLAMY Over there! Look for a sign! 
[the crew rush to the railing and look out at the sea]
[Elizabeth, up on the mast overhead, sighs in
exasperation]
QUARTERMASTER Look there! There it is. There's the sign.
BURSAR That's seaweed. 
QUARTERMASTER S-Seaweed can be a sign.
BURSAR Looks like entrails. That would be a bad sign.
ELIZABETH SWANN What's that over there?
[Elizabeth is now sitting on a platform on the deck behind the men,
pointing at the deck where the lantern fell]
[the men at the railing turn around and look where Elizabeth is
pointing]
[the fire burning on the desk spells out "Tortuga" in fiery
letters] Tortuga [men are tied up with ropes
alongside a well, camera pans past the well]
[a man is tied up and being dunked in the well, and is spouting water
from his mouth]
[crowded tavern, glass bottles are being shot off of people's heads for
entertainment]
[a duo of musicians is playing a guitar and accordion]
GIBBS And what makes you think you're worthy to crew the Black
Pearl?
ELDERLY MAN Truth be told, I never sailed a day in me life. I
figure I should get out and see the world while I'm still young.
GIBBS You'll do. Make your mark. Next!
JILTED MAN My wife ran off with my dog. And I'm drunk for a
month. And I don't give a ass rat's if I live or die.
GIBBS Perfect! Next! ONE-ARMED MAN: Me have one arm, 'n' a
bum leg. GIBBS It's the crow's nest for you.
[Jack is sitting alongside a wall, within earshot of Gibbs' table,
trying to make his Compass work]
JACK SPARROW I know what I want.
GIBBS Next!
ROMANTIC MAN Ever since I was a little lad, I've always wanted to
sail the seas. Forever.
GIBBS Sooner than you think. Sign the roster.
ROMANTIC MAN Thanks very much.
JACK SPARROW How we going?
GIBBS Including those four? That gives us - four!
[to the next candidate in line]
GIBBS And what's *your* story?
NORRINGTON My story... it's exactly the same as your story, just
one chapter behind. I chased a man across the Seven Seas. The pursuit cost me my
crew, my commission, and my life. 
GIBBS Commodore?
NORRINGTON No, not anymore, weren't you *listening*? I nearly had
you all, off Tripoli. I would have, if not for the... hurricane. 
GIBBS Lord. You didn't try to sail through it?
NORRINGTON So do I make your crew, or not? You haven't said where
you're going. Somewhere *nice*! 
[unidentified woman] Oh! [the music
stops, everyone stares at the altercation]
[Jack grabs a branch from a vase, carries it in front of his face,
attempts to walk out unseen]
NORRINGTON So am I *worthy* to serve under Captain Jack
Sparrow?
[Norrington spots Jack sneaking off behind him, points a pistol at
Jack]
NORRINGTON Or should I just kill you now?
[Jack ducks back and forth behind both sides of a large post, as
Norrington points his pistol at Jack]
JACK SPARROW You're hired.
NORRINGTON Sorry. Old habits and all that.
[unidentifed man, to Norrington] Easy, sonny!
[someone deflects Norrington's pistol upwards as it
fires]
[the ball richochets off the chandelier, breaking a man's bottle as he's
drinking from it]
[the man whose bottle broke slugs a man next to him]
[the music starts back up as a brawl ensues]
[one man swings from chandelier, women fight, bottles are thrown against
the wall, etc.]
JACK SPARROW Time to go?
GIBBS Aye!
[a swordfight is going on]
[someone throws a bottle against the wall above the stairs, Jack ducks
as it smashes above his head]
[Jack makes his way upstairs, trading hats a few times along the
way]
JACK SPARROW Thanks, mate.
[Jack slaps him on the shoulder, the man falls backwards off the
balcony]
[Jack halts to let two men carrying another man proceed towards the edge
of the balcony]
JACK SPARROW Carry on. Heave!
[the two men throw the carried man off the balcony, then Jack continues
on his way]
[the music stops, Norrington threateningly holds a bottle in his left
hand]
NORRINGTON Come on, men! Who wants some? Form an orderly line,
I'll have you all one by one. Come on, who's first?
[from behind, Elizabeth grabs the bottle from Norrington, smashes it
over his head, knocking him out]
ELIZABETH SWANN I just wanted the pleasure of doing that myself! 
[the crowd cheers, and everyone holds up their mugs in a
toast]
[men throw Norrington into the mud with some pigs, the crowd leaves
except for Elizabeth]
[Elizabeth turns Norrington over, onto his back]
ELIZABETH SWANN James Norrington. What has the world done to
you?
[Mercer observes Elizabeth and Norrington from the doorway of the
tavern] Flying Dutchman [Jones plays his pipe organ
with his tentacles, steam coming from pipes]
[the crew are on desk, slaving away, pulling rhythmically on a
rope] Heave! Heave! Heave! Heave! Heave! Heave! BO'SUN: Secure the
mast tackle, Mister Turner! BO'SUN: Step to-it/tight! [Will goes to grab
a rope]
WILL TURNER Step aside! BO'SUN:
Regain-yourselves!/Mind-yourself! Scene: ###
[Bootstrap sees that the other man at the rope is his son, Bootstrap is
stunned]
[Bootstrap lets go of the rope, Will attempts to grab the sliding
rope]
[the cannon's rope drags Will across the deck]
[the hoisted cannon crashes to the deck, and the organ music
stops] BO'SUN: Haul that weevil to his feet! [the
crew haul Will to his feet] BO'SUN: Five lashes to remind you... to
stay on 'em! BO'SUN: Impeding me in my duties. You'll share the punishment.
DAVY JONES Will you now? And what would prompt such an
act of charity?
DAVY JONES Ha ha ha ha! Ha ha! What fortuitous circumstance be
this! Five lashes be owed. I believe it is.
[Jones hands the whip to Bootstrap, Jones' tentacle curls around the
shaft of it]
DAVY JONES The cat's out of the bag, Mister Turner. Your issue
will feel its sting be it the Bo'sun's hand, by your own. 
DAVY JONES Bo'sun!
[Bootstrap reluctantly takes the whip]
[two crewmen tear Will's shirt off, exposing his bare
back]
[Bootstrap whips Will's back five times]
[Will is tossed into a lower part of the deck, partially filled with
water]
[Will stands up, wearing an intact white shirt] BO'SUN:
You had it easy, boy! Ha ha ha! WILL TURNER I don't need your
help!
WILL TURNER So I'm to understand what *you* did was an act of
compassion?
FLYING DUTCHMAN below deck
[Bootstrap and Will enter the interior of the ship
together]
[crewmember Wyvern is seen to their right, encrusted into the interior
side of the hull, standing up]
WILL TURNER I've sworn no oath.
WILL TURNER Not until I find this. The key.
[Wyvern's eyes open in the coral-encrusted wall at the mention of the
key]
[Wyvern, who is part of the wall, breaks his head away from the wall,
leaving his brains behind]
WYVERN The deadman's chest.
WILL TURNER What do you know of this?
WYVERN Open the chest with the key, and stab the heart.
No-no-no-no. Don't stab the heart. The Dutchman needs a living heart, or there'll be
no captain. And if there's no captain, there's no one to have the key. 
WILL TURNER So the captain has the key.
[Wyvern retracts his head back into the wall, having said too
much]
WILL TURNER Where *is* the key?
WYVERN Hidden.
WILL TURNER Where is the chest?
WYVERN Hidden.
[Wyvern closes his eyes, and falls silent]
Scene: Black Pearl
[the Black Pearl is at a dock, loading fruits and
livestock]
[Jack and Gibbs are walking together, Elizabeth approaches from behind,
still dressed as a man]
ELIZABETH SWANN Captain Sparrow!
JACK SPARROW Come to join me crew, lad? Welcome aboard.
ELIZABETH SWANN I'm here to find the man I love.
JACK SPARROW I'm deeply flattered, son, but my first and only
love is the sea.
[Norrington vomits over the side]
ELIZABETH SWANN Meaning William Turner, Captain Sparrow.
JACK SPARROW Elizabeth. Hide the rum.
[Gibbs takes the bottle that Jack hands to him, and walks up the
boarding plank in the background]
JACK SPARROW You know, these clothes do not flatter you at all.
It should be a dress or nothing. I happen to have no dress in my cabin.
ELIZABETH SWANN Jack. I know Will came to find you. Where is
he?
JACK SPARROW Darling, I am truly unhappy to have to tell you this
but... through an unfortunate and *entirely* unforeseeable series of circumstances
that have nothing whatsoever to do with me, poor William has been press-ganged into
Davy Jones' crew.
ELIZABETH SWANN Davy Jones?
[Norrington vomits over the side, then spits]
NORRINGTON Oh, please. The captain of the Flying Dutchman.
JACK SPARROW You look bloody awful. What are you doing here?
NORRINGTON You *hired* me. I can't help it if your standards are
lax.
JACK SPARROW You *smell* funny.
ELIZABETH SWANN Jack. All I want is to find Will.
JACK SPARROW Are you certain? Is that what you really want
most?
ELIZABETH SWANN 'Course.
JACK SPARROW Because I would think, you'd want to find a way to
*save* Will the most.
ELIZABETH SWANN And you have a way of doing that?
JACK SPARROW Well, there is a chest...
NORRINGTON Oh, dear.
JACK SPARROW A chest of unknown size and origin.
[Pintel & Ragetti walk by, together carrying a crate of bottles, and
overhearing the conversation]
PINTEL What contains the still-beating heart o' Davy Jones.
RAGETTI Unh-unh... unh-unh... unh-unh...
JACK SPARROW And whoever possesses that chest possesses the
leverage to command Jones to do whatever it is he or she wants, including... saving
brave William from his grim fate.
NORRINGTON You don't actually believe him, do you?
ELIZABETH SWANN How do we find it?
JACK SPARROW With this. My Compass... is unique.
NORRINGTON "Unique" here having the meaning of broken.
JACK SPARROW True enough. This Compass does not point north.
[Norrington vomits over the side]
ELIZABETH SWANN Where does it point?
JACK SPARROW It points to the thing you want most in this
world.
ELIZABETH SWANN Oh Jack! Are you telling the truth?
JACK SPARROW Every word, love. And what you want most in this
world is to find the chest of Davy Jones, is it not?
ELIZABETH SWANN To save Will?
JACK SPARROW By finding the chest of Davy Jones.
[Jack hands the compass to Elizabeth, then draws away quickly so as not
to influence the compass]
[Elizabeth consults the compass, for her the dial clearly points in a
specific direction]
[Jack slowly rises up to peer at the face of the
compass]
JACK SPARROW Mister Gibbs!
GIBBS Cap'n.
JACK SPARROW We have our heading.
GIBBS Finally! Cast off those lines, weigh anchor, and prow that
canvas!
JACK SPARROW Miss Swann.
Scene: GIBBS###
PINTEL Welcome to the crew, former Commodore!
Heh-heh-heh-heh-heh-heh-heh-heh...
[the goat neighs]
PORT ROYAL EITC headquarters
[Beckett and Mercer are in a room with the governor, whose hands are in
shackles]
[Mercer is looking through a mounted telescope to outside the
window]
LORD CUTLER BECKETT There's something to knowing the exact shape
of the world and one's place in it, don't you agree?
LORD CUTLER BECKETT I had you brought here because I thought
you'd be interested in the whereabouts of your daughter.
MERCER Most recently seen on the island of Tortuga, then left, in
the company of a known pirate, Jack Sparrow. *And* other fugitives from
justice.
LORD CUTLER BECKETT Including the previous owner of this sword...
I believe. Our ships are in pursuit. and justice will be dispensed by cannonade and
cutlass, and all manner of remorseless pieces of metal. I personally find it
distasteful to even contemplate the horror facing all those on board. 
LORD CUTLER BECKETT Your authority as governor, your influence in
London, and your loyalty to the East India Trading Company.
LORD CUTLER BECKETT Shall I remove these shackles?
LORD CUTLER BECKETT So you see, Mercer, every man has a price he
will willingly accept. Even for what he hopes never to sell.
FLYING DUTCHMAN deck
[slow motion scene of falling dice]
[three crewman are playing Liar's Dice]
[organ music is heard in the background]
MACCUS I wager... ten years.
KOLENIKO I'll match ten years.
GREENBEARD Agreed.
WILL TURNER I understand. Liar!
WILL TURNER It's a game of deception. Your bet includes all the
dice, not just your own.
WILL TURNER What are they wagering?
WILL TURNER So any crewman can be challenged?
WILL TURNER I challenge Davy Jones.
[immediately the organ music ceases, immediately Jones' peg leg is heard
thumping in approach]
[with each thump of his footstep, gooseneck barnacles
retract]
[someone laughs]
DAVY JONES I accept that-uh.
[Jones sits down at the gambling table]
DAVY JONES The stakes?
WILL TURNER My soul. An eternity of servitude.
DAVY JONES Against?
WILL TURNER I want this.
[Jack shows Jones the picture of the key]
DAVY JONES How do you know of the key?
WILL TURNER That's not part of the game, is it? You can still
walk away.
[One of Jones' tentacles pulls out the key from his vest to display
it]
[the tentacle puts the key back]
[Bootstrap sits down at the table]
DAVY JONES What's this?
WILL TURNER No! Don't do this.
DAVY JONES Four fours.
WILL TURNER Four fives.
DAVY JONES Seven fives-uh.
WILL TURNER Eight fives.
DAVY JONES Huh huh huh. Welcome to the crew, liar. 
DAVY JONES And be called a liar myself for my trouble? Bootstrap
Bill, you're a liar and you will spend an eternity on this ship! Master Turner, feel
free to go ashore... the very next time we make port! 
WILL TURNER Fool. Why did you do that?
WILL TURNER It was never about winning, or losing.
FLYING DUTCHMAN organ room
[nighttime on deck of the Flying Dutchman]
[Will emerges from a hatch on deck]
[Will sneaks past one one the crew on deck, who is sleeping with a
bottle in his hand]
[Jones is asleep at his organ, snoring]
[Will sneaks into his room, behind him]
[Will grabs a nearby quill pen, uses it to lift one of Jones'
tentacles]
[one tentacle accidentally falls on an organ key, almost waking up
Jones]
[the falling tentacle also sets off a locket on top of the organ, that
plays a song]
[Will holds one of the staves in his mouth while lifting the
tentacles]
[Will finally removes the key, replaces it with his drawing of the
key]
FLYING DUTCHMAN deck
WILL TURNER It's not a fate you had to choose for yourself,
either.
WILL TURNER They'll know you helped me.
WILL TURNER I take this with a promise. I'll find a way to sever
Jones' hold on you. And not rest until this blade pierces his heart. I will not
abandon you. I promise.
[Will sets out alone on a longboat]
Scene: Black Pearl
[crewmen are scrubbing the deck of the Black Pearl]
GIBBS Beckett!
ELIZABETH SWANN Yes, they're signed, Lord Cutler Beckett of the
East India Trading Company.
JACK SPARROW Agh.
GIBBS Will was working for Beckett, and never said a word.
JACK SPARROW Agh.
GIBBS Beckett wants the Compass. Only one reason for that.
JACK SPARROW Of course. He wants the chest.
ELIZABETH SWANN Yes, he did say something about a chest.
GIBBS If the company controls the chest, they controls the
sea.
JACK SPARROW A truly discomforting notion, love.
GIBBS And bad. Bad for every mother's son what calls himself a
pirate. I think there's a bit more speed to be coaxed from these sails. Brace the
foreyard!
JACK SPARROW Might I inquire how as to how you came by these? 
ELIZABETH SWANN Persuasion.
JACK SPARROW Friendly?
ELIZABETH SWANN Decidedly not.
JACK SPARROW Will strikes a deal for these and upholds it with
honor. Yet you're the one standing here with the prize. Full pardon, commission as a
privateer on behalf of England and the East India Trading Company. As if I could be
bought for such a low price. 
[Jack tucks the Letters into his coat and begins to walk
away]
ELIZABETH SWANN Jack, the Letters, give them back.
JACK SPARROW No. Persuade me.
ELIZABETH SWANN You do know Will taught me how handle a sword. 
JACK SPARROW As I said... Persuade me.
[Elizabeth walks away frustrated, leans on the ship's
railing]
[Jack makes an odd grunting noise]
[Norrington walks up to Elizabeth at the railing]
NORRINGTON It's a curious thing. There was a time when I would've
given anything for you to look like that while thinking about me.
ELIZABETH SWANN I don't know what you mean.
NORRINGTON Oh, I think you do.
ELIZABETH SWANN Oh, don't be absurd. I trust him, that's
all.
NORRINGTON So you never wondered how your *latest* fianc ended
up on the Flying Dutchman in the first place? Edinburgh Trader
BELLAMY Strange thing to come upon a longboat so far out in open
waters. 
WILL TURNER Just put as many leagues behind us as you can. As
fast as you can.
BELLAMY And what are we running from?
[Will sees Elizabeth's white wedding dress on a chair in the
cabin]
WILL TURNER That dress. Where did you get it?
BELLAMY It was found aboard the ship. The crew it thought it was
a spirit bringing some omen of ill fate.
WILL TURNER That's foolish.
QUARTERMASTER Oh, yes. Proceededly foolish.
BURSAR It brought good fortune! The spirit told us... Put in at
Tortuga. And we made a nice bit of profit there.
BELLAMY Off the books, of course. 
WILL TURNER I imagine... some of your crew may have jumped ship
there.
BELLAMY Why do you ask?
MESSENGER SAILOR Captain, a ship's been spotted. 
BELLAMY Colors?
MESSENGER SAILOR She isn't flyin' any.
BELLAMY Pirates!
WILL TURNER Or worse.
FLYING DUTCHMAN deck
[Jones is on deck, having found the cloth that Will swapped for the
key]
[Bootstrap is held at knife point on board the Flying
Dutchman]
[one crewman holds a sawfish sword as a restraining weapon in front of
Bootstrap]
DAVY JONES You will watch this.
[crewmen are whipped, in order to turn a large screw that raises the
Kraken summoning device]
DAVY JONES Let no joyful voice be heard! Let no man look up at
the sky with hope! And let this day be cursed by we who ready to wake... the
*Kraken*!
[the Kraken calling device thumps heavily against the
sea]
Scene: Edinburgh Trader
[crewmen on board the Edinburgh Trader rush to the railing, chattering,
to see the Flying Dutchman]
[Will is on top of the mast]
WILL TURNER I've doomed us all. It's the Flying Dutchman!
[a loud thumping sound resonates throughout the ship]
BURSAR Oh, Mother Cary's chickens. What happened? 
QUARTERMASTER Must've hit a reef.
[the crew look overboard, see bubbles rising up alongside the
ship]
BELLAMY Free the rudder! Hard to port, then hard to starboard!
Clear the rudder! Hard to port!
[a Kraken tentacle silently seizes one crewman while other crewmembers
have their backs turned]
[the Kraken tentacle surfaces in the distance, holding the crewman who
was just seized, he screams] *Kraken!* [crewman
rings the ship's bell wildly]
Scene: ###
[music stops, slow motion scene, a huge tentacle rises high over the
ship]
[the tentacle comes down on deck, breaking the ship in two, bouncing men
off the deck]
[slow motion scene, men slide off of tilted deck]
[Will is flung underwater, sees the body of the Kraken in the distance
underwater]
[Will surfaces, climbs aboard a floating board of ship
debris]
[the Flying Dutchman comes near Will, Will slides off his board to swim
towards the ship]
[view from the bow of the Flying Dutchman, looking at the floating
debris, including a face-down corpse]
[Elizabeth's wedding dress is also debris, and floats on the surface of
the sea]
FLYING DUTCHMAN deck
MACCUS The boy's not here. He must've been claimed by the
sea.
DAVY JONES *I* am the sea.
[Jones stomps over to Bootstrap]
DAVY JONES You need time alone with your thoughts. What of the
survivors?
DAVY JONES There are no survivors.
[the remaining crewmen are simultanenously axed from
behind]
[Will witnesses the axing, ducks behind a beam]
[Jones turns around, sensing Will, but sees nothing]
DAVY JONES The chest is no longer safe. Chart a course to Isla
Cruces. Get me there first, or there'll be the devil to pay. 
KOLENIKO First?
DAVY JONES Who sent that thieving charlatan onto my ship? Who
told them of the key? Jack Sparrow.
[camera shows Will hitching a ride on the front of the Flying Dutchman,
between the jaw formations]
[Elizabeth's wedding dress is shown underwater, sinking into the depths
of the sea] Black Pearl [Elizabeth is sitting on
some steps on deck of the Black Pearl]
[Jack walks over to her, holding a bottle of rum]
JACK SPARROW My tremendous intuitive sense of the female creature
informs me that you are troubled.
ELIZABETH SWANN I just thought I'd be married by now. I'm so
ready to be married. 
[Jack offers Elizabeth a drink from his bottle]
JACK SPARROW You know... Lizzy... I *am*... captain of a ship.
And *being* captain of a ship, I could in fact perform a... marriage. Right here.
Right on this deck. Right... *now*! 
[Elizabeth recoils at Jack's breath on the word "now"]
ELIZABETH SWANN No, thank you.
JACK SPARROW Why not? We *are* very much alike, you and I. I and
you. Us.
ELIZABETH SWANN Oh. Except for a sense of honor, and decency
and-and a moral center. And personal hygiene.
[Jack smells his armpits]
JACK SPARROW Trifles. You *will* come over to my side, I know
it.
ELIZABETH SWANN You seem very certain.
JACK SPARROW One word love: curiosity. You long for freedom. You
long to do what you want to do because you want it. To act on selfish impulse. You
want to see what it's like. One day, you won't be able to resist.
ELIZABETH SWANN Why doesn't your Compass work? 
JACK SPARROW Uh my Compass works fine. 
ELIZABETH SWANN Because you and I *are* alike, and there will
come a moment when you have a chance to show it. To do the right thing.
JACK SPARROW I *love* those moments. I like to wave at them as
they pass by.
ELIZABETH SWANN You'll have the chance to do something...
something courageous. And when you do, you'll discover something: that you're a good
man.
JACK SPARROW All evidence to the contrary.
ELIZABETH SWANN I have faith in you. Want to know why?
JACK SPARROW Do tell, dearie.
ELIZABETH SWANN Curiosity. You're going to want it. A chance to
be admired. And gain the rewards that follow. You won't be able to resist. You're
going to want to know... what it tastes like.
JACK SPARROW I *do* want to know what it tastes like.
ELIZABETH SWANN But - seeing as you're a good man I know you will
*never* put me in a position that would compromise my honor.
[Jack stares in horror as the black spot boils back into view on his
hand, Elizabeth doesn't notice]
ELIZABETH SWANN I'm proud of you, Jack.
GIBBS Land ho!
JACK SPARROW I want my jar of dirt. 
Scene: Longboat
[Pintel and Ragetti are rowing a longboat with key members of the crew
inside]
[Jack in the bow, Elizabeth and Norrington are in the
back]
PINTEL You're pullin' too fast.
RAGETTI You're pulling too slow. We don't want the Kraken to
catch us.
PINTEL I'm savin' me strength for when it comes. And I don't
think it's Krack-en, anyways. I always heard it said Kray-kin. 
RAGETTI What, with a long A? 
PINTEL Aye.
RAGETTI No-no-no-no-no-no-no. Krock-en's how it's pronounced in
the original Scandinavian, and Krack-en's closer to that. 
PINTEL Well we ain't original Scandinavians, are we?
Kray-ken!
RAGETTI It's a mythological creature, I can calls it what I
wants.
ISLA CRUCES beach
[their longboat arrives at the beach, Jack disembarks and begins to walk
off]
JACK SPARROW Guard the boat, mind the tide... Don't touch my
dirt.
[Elizabeth is walking in some sand dunes near the beach, using the
compass]
ELIZABETH SWANN This doesn't work. And it *certainly* doesn't
show you what you want most.
[Elizabeth sits down on the sand, and sets the compass down on the sand,
the needle points to her]
JACK SPARROW Yes it *does*. You're sitting on it! 
ELIZABETH SWANN Beg your pardon?
JACK SPARROW Move. 
[they start digging under where Elizabeth was sitting]
[Pintel and Ragetti are by the boat, clowning around, Ragetti is
balancing a shovel on one hand]
PINTEL "Mind the tide." 
RAGETTI I can/may join the circus!
PINTEL Don't mind if I shine your shoes, Sir?
FLYING DUTCHMAN deck
[Jones is watching Pintel and Ragetti on the beach through a
spyglass]
DAVY JONES They're here. And I cannot step foot on land again for
near of a decade. 
MACCUS Then trust us to act in your stead.
DAVY JONES I'll trust you know what awaits should you *fail*!
Down, then!
[ugly, nondescript crewmember] Down!
MACCUS Down!
[view from the deck of the Flying Dutchman as it submerges, some
underwater footage]
[Pintel and Ragetti are astounded to see the ship submerge in the
distance, Ragetti's balanced shovel falls]
[Pintel and Ragetti run off to warn the others]
Scene: ###!
ISLA CRUCES beach
[Norrington is digging in the sand, Jack sits in a lotus position nearby
on a sandy slope]
[while digging, Norrington's shovel hits something hard, they brush off
sand to reveal a chest]
[they remove the chest from the sand]
[the chest contains a pearl necklace, documents, and a smaller chest,
among other things]
[Elizabeth opens up a letter with a wax seal, and reads it to
herself]
[they all bend near to put their ears to the small chest, and they hear
a heartbeat]
ELIZABETH SWANN It's real!
NORRINGTON You actually *were* telling the truth.
JACK SPARROW I do that quite a lot. Yet people are always
surprised.
WILL TURNER With good reason!
[Will has unexpectedly appeared on the beach, walking up toward
them]
ELIZABETH SWANN Will! You're alright! Thank God! I came to find
you!
[Will and Elizabeth kiss]
JACK SPARROW How did you get here?
WILL TURNER Sea turtles, mate. A pair of them, strapped to my
feet.
JACK SPARROW Not so easy, is it?
WILL TURNER But I do owe you thanks, Jack.
JACK SPARROW You do?
WILL TURNER After you tricked me onto that ship to square your
debt with Jones.
ELIZABETH SWANN What?
JACK SPARROW What?
WILL TURNER I was reunited with my father.
JACK SPARROW Oh! Well... you're welcome, then.
ELIZABETH SWANN Everything you said to me... every word, was a
lie!
JACK SPARROW Pretty much. Time and tide, love. 
[Will stoops down with the key to open the chest]
JACK SPARROW Oy! What're you doing?
WILL TURNER I'm gonna kill Jones.
[Jack draws his sword, points it at Will]
JACK SPARROW Can't let you do that, William. 'Cause if Jones is
dead, who's to call his terrible beastie off the hunt, eh? Now. If you please: The
key.
[Will backs up slowly, then suddenly draws Elizabeth's sword, points it
at Jack]
WILL TURNER I keep the promises I make, Jack. I intend to free my
father. I hope you're here to see it.
[Norrington draws his sword, points it at Will]
NORRINGTON I can't let you do that, either. So sorry.
JACK SPARROW I knew you'd warm up to me eventually.
[Norrington points his sword at Jack]
NORRINGTON Lord Beckett desires the contents of that chest. I
deliver it, and get my life back.
JACK SPARROW Ah. The dark side of ambition.
NORRINGTON Oh, I prefer to see it as the promise of
redemption.
ELIZABETH SWANN Stop it! Be careful!
[various dueling interjections]
ELIZABETH SWANN Jack!
WILL TURNER Guard the chest!
[duel halts for a second]
ELIZABETH SWANN *No*!
[duel resumes]
ELIZABETH SWANN This is bar-*baric*! This is *no* way for grown
men to settle - ! Oh! Fine! Let's just - *pull* out our swords and start *banging*
away at each other! *This will solve everything!* I've had it! I've had enough!
Wobbly-legged, rum-soaked... *pirates*! 
[Elizabeth throws a rock at the duelists, but the rock goes far to the
left of them]
PINTEL How'd this go all screwy? Enough!
RAGETTI Well, each wants the chest for hisself, don't 'e? Mister
Norrington, I think he's tryna regain a bit of honor. Old Jack's lookin' to trade
it, save his own skin. And Turner there - I figure 'e's tryna... settle some
unresolved business 'twixt him and his twice-cursed pirate father. 
PINTEL Sad. That chest must be worth more 'n a shiny penny. 
RAGETTI Oh! Tsk-tsk-tsk. Terrible temptation.
PINTEL If we was any kind of *decent*, we'd remove temptation
from their path.
[Pintel and Ragetti giggle and run off to steal the small
chest]
ELIZABETH SWANN Will! *Enough!*
[Elizabeth is panting from exasperation and exhaustion]
ELIZABETH SWANN Oh! Oh...! The heat!
[Elizabeth pretends to faint, which knocks off her hat]
[Elizabeth watches sideways as the duelists continue fighting, oblivious
to her]
[Elizabeth soon sits up, puts on her hat]
[Pintel & Ragetti run by in the distance behind her, with the
chest]
[Elizabeth sees Pintel & Ragetti, and goes to chase
them]
[various duel scenes on the beach]
ELIZABETH SWANN Bugger!
[Norrington kicks sand in Will's face]
NORRINGTON By your leave, Mister Turner.
[Norrington runs off to chase Jack up the hill]
[the crew of Flying Dutchman emerge from the shallows]
[one crewmember holds chain shot as a weapon]
ISLA CRUCES church
[Jack and Norrington run through bushes on the beach, then up to a
dilapidated stone church on the hill]
[P2]
[Norrington chases Jack up steps inside the building, Jack kicks
Norrington back down with his foot]
[Jack and Norrington have a swordfight on the inside
steps]
[Jack grabs hold of the bell rope, which carries him downward, and
carries Will upward, who just arrived]
WILL TURNER By *your* leave, Mister Norrington.
[the Flying Dutchman crew on shore are at the large chest and look up to
the ringing bell in the building on the hill]
[while Norrington and Will are dueling on top of the roof, Jack deftly
grabs the dangling key away from Norrington's hand]
[noticing the key gone, Norrington then turns and duels with
Jack]
[soon Norrington knocks Jack's sword from Jack's hand, the sword is
flung onto the ground below]
NORRINGTON Do excuse me while I kill the man who ruined my
life.
WILL TURNER Be my guest.
JACK SPARROW Let us examine that claim for a moment, former
Commodore, shall we? Who was it, who at the very moment you had a notorious pirate
safely behind bars, saw fit to *free* said pirate, and take your dearly beloved all
to hisself, hey? So who's fault is it, *really*, that you've ended up a rum-pot
deckhand what takes orders from pirates?
NORRINGTON Enough!
[Jack somersaults off the roof to escape, Norrington turns to
Will]
NORRINGTON Unfortunately, Mister Turner... He's *right*!
[Norrington and Will resume their part of the rooftop
duel]
JACK SPARROW Still rooting for you, mate!
[Jack picks up his sword from the ground, and puts the key around his
neck]
[Jack walks through a graveyard, falls into an open
grave]
JACK SPARROW Wup!
[Jack stands up in the bottom of the hole]
JACK SPARROW Oh.
[Norrington backs Will onto the top of the mill's
waterwheel]
[the axle of the wheel breaks off with Norrington and Jack dueling on
top]
[Jack is facing the other direction, so is unaware of the freed wheel
rolling behind him]
[the wheel crashes through a small fence, turns, and rolls directly
towards Jack]
[the waterwheel rolls over Jack, and Jack is pulled into the inside of
the wheel]
JACK SPARROW Woah!
[the key that Jack had around his neck falls off into the
wheel]
[Jack struggles to grab the key, which is caught and dangling inside the
rolling wheel]
[Jack finally grabs the key, but hits his head on a metal bar inside the
wheel, and falls off the wheel]
[Pintel & Ragetti are running off with the small chest, each holding
one side, giggling]
[Elizabeth steps in front Pintel & Ragetti, confronting them, halts,
panting]
[Pintel & Ragetti drop the chest, pull their swords on
Elizabeth]
[Elizabeth reaches for her sword, but it's gone]
PINTEL 'Ello, Poppet.
[Pintel & Ragetti slowly advance on Elizabeth, she slowly retreats
while facing them]
[they all pause for a moment to watch the wheel roll by with the duel on
top]
[Jack is running behind the wheel, trying to catch up and get the key
that is still inside]
[Pintel shrugs, Pintel and Ragetti resume advancing on
Elizabeth]
[suddenly a thrown axe embeds itself in a coconut palm next to
Elizabeth]
[all three turn to see Jones' crew crashing through the bushes toward
them]
[swordfight ensues with the Flying Dutchmen crew and Pintel and
Ragetti]
[Norrington and Will continue fighting atop the rolling
wheel]
[Jack grabs hold of a palm frond on a coconut palm while at the top of
the wheel]
[the wheel continues on, Jack hangs from the frond, then drops to the
ground]
PINTEL Sword!
ELIZABETH SWANN Sword!
[a sword is thrown to Elizabeth, just in time]
PINTEL Sword!
[a sword is thrown to Pintel, just in time]
RAGETTI Sword!
[a sword is thrown to Ragetti, just in time]
[Jack sees Hadrus running alone through the palms, carrying the small
chest]
[Jack picks up a coconut, whirls it a moment, then throws it at
Hadrus]
[Hadrus' (conch shell) head is knocked off by the
coconut]
[Hadrus' head lies on the ground, attempting to give orders to the rest
of his body to find the head]
HADRUS Aya! Uh seech! Aunido! Aunido! Follow my voice! Follow my
voice! To the left, uh... No, to the right... Go to the left... 
[Hadrus' headless body walks into a coconut palm]
HADRUS No... That's a tree.
JACK SPARROW Oh, shut it.
[Jack unlocks the small chest with the key, square security bolts
suddenly protrude when opened]
[the heart is inside, beating]
[crewmen of the Flying Dutchman approach, Jack tucks the heart into his
vest]
[Elizabeth uses two swords together, one in each hand, to stab backwards
and kill two attacking crewmen]
ISLA CRUCES beach
[Jack is the first to arrive back at the longboat on the
beach]
JACK SPARROW Jar of dirt!
[Jack opens his jar of dirt, dumps out some dirt, puts the heart in the
jar, scoops handfuls of dirt back into the jar]
[a Flying Dutchman crewmember arrives at the boat, Jack fights him using
an oar]
[the swordfight is carried to the beach as the Black Pearl crew attempts
to escape by longboat]
[Norrington arrives at the longboat, while others are fighting he takes
the heart from the jar, puts it under his vest]
[the rolling waterwheel reaches the beach, rolls out into the shallows,
falls on its side]
[Norrington and Will walk away from it, wobbling from
dizziness]
WILL TURNER Right!
[Pintel & Ragetti attempt to escape by longboat, but Will blocks
their progress]
[Pintel & Ragetti reach for their swords, to find their swords
gone]
[Pintel & Ragetti grab a fishnet and oar as weapons against
Will]
PINTEL Come on, Turner!
[Jack fights with Koleniko, using an oar, subdues him]
[Will sees the key in the chest, Jack notices Will looking at the key
and chest]
[Jack hits Will on the head with the our, which knocks him
out]
JACK SPARROW Leave him lie! Unless you plan on using him to hit
something with.
ELIZABETH SWANN We're not getting out of this.
NORRINGTON Not with the chest. Into the boat. 
[Norrington takes the chest]
ELIZABETH SWANN You're mad.
NORRINGTON Don't wait for me.
JACK SPARROW Uh, I say we respect his final wish.
PINTEL Aye! 
[the remaining Black Pearl crew escape by longboat]
[Hadrus is holding his conch shell head under one arm, the head speaks
to Norrington]
HADRUS Your bravery is wasted. I shall pry the chest away from
your cold... dead... hands.
[Norrington pauses, looks around]
NORRINGTON Here you go! 
HADRUS Oo!
[Norrington flees, Hadrus drops his head onto the ground when catching
the chest]
[Hadrus' crewmates laugh and walk off with Hadrus' body, ignoring
Hadrus' head]
HADRUS Uh! Ando! Aunido! Aunido! Pirates!
[the face inside Hadrus' head turns around, turns into a hermit crab,
extends its legs]
[the hermit crab head crawls after its departing body and
crew]
HADRUS Vengo kowmpenay lachay. Hey! Hovaya! Black Pearl
[Will, lying flat on the deck, head over a grate, returns to
consciousness aboard the Black Pearl]
WILL TURNER What happened to the chest?
ELIZABETH SWANN Norrington took it to draw them off.
PINTEL You're pulling too hard!
RAGETTI You're not pulling hard enough!
GIBBS Where's the Commodore?
JACK SPARROW He fell behind.
GIBBS My prayers be with him. Best not wallow in our grief. The
bright side is: You're back. And made it off free and clear.
[the Flying Dutchman suddenly surfaces alongside them]
GIBBS Lord almighty.us.
JACK SPARROW I'll handle this, mate.
JACK SPARROW Hey! Fishface! Lose something? Hey? Oup!
[Jack falls down the stairs of the Pearl, crew says
"Ooh!"]
JACK SPARROW Got it! 
[Jack stands up, struts across the deck, holding his jar of
dirt]
JACK SPARROW Come to negotiate, eh, have you, you slimy git? Look
what I got. I got a jar of dirt! I got a jar of dirt! And guess what's inside
it?
DAVY JONES Enough!
[the Flying Dutchman's cannon covers slide down, cannons emerge from the
holes]
JACK SPARROW Hard to starboard.
ELIZABETH SWANN *Hard to starboard!*
WILL TURNER Brace up the foreyard! 
GIBBS Hard to starboard!
DAVY JONES Send his beloved Pearl back to the depths! Fire!
[a heavy cannonade fires from the Flying Dutchman, blowing large holes
in the Black Pearl]
[Pintel and Ragetti look through the gaping hole in the stern, see the
Flying Dutchman following them]
PINTEL She's on us! She's on us!
DAVY JONES Let them taste the triple guns.
[cage-faced crewmember] Aye, Captain.
[triple-barreled cannon fires, barrel rotates after each
blast]
DAVY JONES Come on, ###!
ELIZABETH SWANN She's falling behind!
GIBBS Aye, and we've got her!
WILL TURNER We're the faster?
GIBBS Against the wind the Dutchman beats us. That's how she
takes her prey. But *with* the wind...
WILL TURNER We rob her advantage.
GIBBS Ah!
FLYING DUTCHMAN deck
DAVY JONES They're out of range! Break out run ### We giving up,
Sir?
[crewmen of the Flying Dutchman are whipped to raise the Kraken calling
device]
Scene: BLACK PEARL
MARTY They're giving up! Yay!
[crew cheers]
WILL TURNER My father is *on* that ship. If we can outrun her, we
can take her. We should turn and fight. 
JACK SPARROW Why fight when you can negotiate? All one needs...
is the proper leverage.
[suddenly the Black Pearl is badly jarred]
[Jack's jar of dirt falls to the deck, breaks open, spills all the
dirt]
[Jack runs down to the spilled dirt, searches frantically for the heart,
which is gone]
JACK SPARROW Where is it? Where is the thump-thump? We must've
hit the reef! 
WILL TURNER No. It's not a reef! Get away from the rail!
ELIZABETH SWANN What is it?
WILL TURNER The Kraken. To arms!
GIBBS All guns, defend the masts! 
WILL TURNER It'll attack the starboard. I've seen it before.
Break out the cannons and hold for my signal. 
[with a deep rumbling sound, the Kraken's tentacles slowly crawl up the
hull]
WILL TURNER Easy, boys!
ELIZABETH SWANN Will?
[the tentacles rise higher]
WILL TURNER Steady! Steady.
ELIZABETH SWANN Will?
[the tentacles start feeling around the ship]
WILL TURNER Hold. Hold...
PINTEL I think we've held fire long enough.
ELIZABETH SWANN *Will?*
WILL TURNER *Fire...*!
[the crew fire the cannons, hitting the tentacles and nearly severing
some]
[the Kraken sinks into the sea, some tentacles glowing from the
blast]
[the crew cheers]
WILL TURNER It'll be back. We have to get off the ship.
ELIZABETH SWANN There's no boats.
[Will sees the wrecked boats, then sets his eyes on the barrels of
gunpowder]
WILL TURNER Pull the grates! Get all the gunpowder onto the net
in the cargo hold.
[hands Elizabeth a long gun]
WILL TURNER Whatever you do, don't miss.
ELIZABETH SWANN As soon as you're clear.
[the crew is busy loading barrels of gunpowder from the
hold] We are short stocked on gunpowder. Six barrel/below.
ELIZABETH SWANN Bring it up!
GIBBS There's only half a dozen kegs of powder!
WILL TURNER Then load the rum!
[Gibbs seems shocked, then turns to see the entire crew halted, staring
at him in shocked silence]
GIBBS Aye! The rum, too!
[the crew continues loading]
[aerial view approaching Black Pearl, zooming through the rigging to the
other side]
[Jack is in a rowboat alone, rowing away from the Black
Pearl]
[Jack stops rowing, sees the Kraken with tentacles around Black Pearl in
the distance]
[Jack looks back into the direction he's headed, then consults his
Compass]
ELIZABETH SWANN Step to!
[Elizabeth runs to the railing, sees Jack rowing away]
ELIZABETH SWANN Oh you coward!
[another heavy thud hits the ship, crewmen shout]
MARTY Not good.
[the Kraken attacks again]
WILL TURNER Pull away!
GIBBS Heave! Heave like you're being paid for it!
[Pintel & Ragetti stand to one side of a cannon port as a tentacle
pulls one crewmember through sideways]
[Will hangs onto the side of the net of gunpowder barrels, attempting to
attract the Kraken's attention]
WILL TURNER Euh! Come on!I'm over here! Come on!
[Will slashes at tentacles with his sword]
WILL TURNER Shoot! Elizabeth, shoot!
[Elizabeth hesitates, waiting for Will to fall free]
[one of the Kraken's tentacles wrap around her leg and drag her
backwards, she screams]
[Ragetti chops off the end of the tentacle holding
Elizabeth]
[Another crewmember picks up the rifle and attempts to shoot, only to be
grabbed by the Kraken and flung around]
[the rifle drops onto the deck above Elizabeth]
[Elizabeth tries to pick up the fallen rifle, but someone's foot holds
it down]
[she sees that it's Jack's foot, that he has returned to the
Pearl]
[Jack picks up the rifle and takes aim at the
gunpowder]
[slow motion scene of Jack firing a ball into the
gunpowder]
[ball whistles through the air, strikes the gunpowder, which
explodes]
[the Kraken releases its hold, burned tentacles withdraw into the ocean,
groaning sound]
MARTY Did we kill it?
GIBBS No. We just made it angry. We're not out of this yet.
Captain! Orders!
JACK SPARROW Abandon ship. Into the longboat.
GIBBS Jack! The Pearl!
JACK SPARROW She's only a ship, mate.
ELIZABETH SWANN He's right, we have to head for land.
PINTEL 'S a lot o' open wa'er.
RAGETTI That's a lot o' wa'er.
WILL TURNER We have to try. We can get away as it takes down the
Pearl.
GIBBS Abandon ship. Abandon ship or abandon hope.
[the crew get ready to leave the Pearl, loading supplies and
guns]
[Elizabeth approaches Jack]
ELIZABETH SWANN Thank you, Jack.
JACK SPARROW We're not free yet, love.
ELIZABETH SWANN You came back. I always knew you were a good
man.
[Elizabeth passionately kisses Jack]
[Will sees the kiss from the longboat, falters]
GIBBS Prepare to cast off! There's no time to lose! Come on,
Will, step to!
[the kiss is inturrupted by the sound of shackles, Elizabeth has chained
Jack to the main mast]
ELIZABETH SWANN It's after you, not the ship. It's not us. This
is the only way, don't you see? I'm not sorry.
[Elizabeth leans in as if to kiss him again.]
JACK SPARROW Pirate. 
[Elizabeth leaves Jack and climbs down into the long
boat]
WILL TURNER Where's Jack?
ELIZABETH SWANN He elected to stay behind to give us a
chance.
[the crew look uncertain]
ELIZABETH SWANN Go!
[the longboat casts off]
[Jack struggles with his manacles]
JACK SPARROW Bugger, bugger, bugger, bugger, bugger,
bugger...!
[a coconut and cannonball roll by, on the tilted deck]
[Jack spots a fallen lantern, picks it up with the tip of his
sword]
[Jack breaks the lantern against the mast, pours oil over his
wrists]
[Jack struggles with slipping his hand out]
JACK SPARROW Come on... Come on...
[Jack finally manages to slip his hands out]
[the Kraken rises up behind him]
[Jack halts, turns around, faces the Kraken]
[music and sound stop momentarily]
[the Kraken roars, spraying Jack with slime and flinging his
earlier-eaten hat to the deck]
JACK SPARROW Not so bad.
[Jack spots his old hat lying next to his feet]
JACK SPARROW Oh!
[Jack spots his hat, picks it up, puts it on, wipes slime from his
face]
JACK SPARROW Hello, beastie.
[slow motion scene of Jack boldy charging toward the Kraken's mouth,
sword drawn]
[Q3]
FLYING DUTCHMAN deck
DAVY JONES Jack Sparrow. Our debt is settled. 
KOLENIKO The captain goes down with his ship.
MACCUS Turns out not even Jack Sparrow can best the devil.
DAVY JONES Open the chest. Open the chest, I need to see it!
[the chest is opened, side view as Jones looks in, his face
quivers]
[downwards view, showing that the chest is empty, Jones tilts his head
back and shouts]
DAVY JONES Damn you, Jack Spar-*row*!
PORT ROYAL EITC headquarters
MERCER The last of our ships has returned.
LORD CUTLER BECKETT Is there any news on the chest?
MERCER None. But... one of the ships did pick up a man adrift at
sea. He had these.
[Mercer drops the Letters of Marque on Beckett's desk]
[Beckett opens the letter to look at it before looking up at Norrington,
who has been standing in the office]
NORRINGTON I took the liberty of filling in my name.
[from his desk, Beckett beckons Norrington with two
fingers]
LORD CUTLER BECKETT If you intend to claim these, then you must
have something to trade. D'you have the Compass?
NORRINGTON Better. The heart of Davy Jones.
BAYOU Tia's shack
[the remaining crew paddles through the waters to Tia Dalma's
shack]
[many natives stand in the waters surrounding the shack, holding
candles, mourning Jack Sparrow]
[inside the shack, Will absent-mindedly keeps throwing his father's
knife into the table top]
[Tia carries a tray around to all of them, offers the mugs to
Elizabeth]
TIA DALMA Against de cold... and de sorrow.
[Elizabeth takes a mug but doesn't drink]
TIA DALMA It's a shame. I know you're t'inking that wid the
Pearl, you coulda captured the devil and set free your fadder's soul.
WILL TURNER Doesn't matter now. The Pearl's gone. Along with its
captain.
[Gibbs is standing in the doorway on the side of the
shack]
GIBBS Aye. And already the world seems a bit less bright. He
fooled us all right to the end. But I guess that honest streak finally won out. To
Jack Sparrow!
RAGETTI Never another like Captain Jack.
PINTEL He was a gentleman of fortune, he was.
ELIZABETH SWANN He was a good man.
[they all take a drink out of their mugs, except
Elizabeth]
WILL TURNER If there was anything could be done to bring him
back... Elizabeth...
TIA DALMA Would you do it? Hmmm? What... would you? Hmmm? What
would *any* of you be willing to do? Hmmm? Would you sail to the ends of the eart',
and beyond, to fetch back witty Jack and 'im precious Pearl? 
GIBBS Aye.
PINTEL Aye.
RAGETTI Aye. COTTON'S PARROT: Awk! Aye.
ELIZABETH SWANN Yes.
WILL TURNER Aye.
TIA DALMA Alright. But if you're goin' brave de weird, and
haunted shores, at world's end, den... you will need a captain who knows dose
waters. 
[a man wearing boots descends the stairs into the room]
BARBOSSA So tell me, what's become of my ship? 
[Barbossa bites into a green apple, juice dripples down his
chin]
[Jack the monkey on Barbossa's left shoulder faces the camera and
snarls]
Scene: END CREDITS



	
		
			Iraq clears visit by Ohio official
			By Scott Montgomery Washington
			The Iraqi government has agreed to let U.S. Rep. Tony Hall visit the
				country next week to assess a humanitarian crisis that has festered
				since the Gulf War of 1990, Hall's office said Monday.
			The Dayton Democrat, who has traveled to other crisis points including
				Sierra Leone and North Korea, will spend three days visiting hospitals
				and other facilities to seek understanding why aid has been ineffective
				in stemming malnourishment and other medical problems.
			Iraq has been under economic sanctions since the war ended, which some
				say have thwarted the country's ability to recover from the devastation
				of the bombing campaign.
			The Persian Gulf War destroyed much of the country's medical
				infrastructure, according to a report by the World Health Organization.
				In 1996 the WHO found that much of the population existed in a state of
				``semi starvation.''
			Hall will be only the second member of Congress to travel in Iraq since
				the war, according to Hall's office. The last visitor was then-U.S. Rep.
				Bill Richardson of New Mexico, who went to help a pair of U.S. oilmen in
				diplomatic trouble.
			Hall flies to Amman, Jordan, on Friday, where he'll spend the night
				before driving to Iraq. Flights are not permitted into Iraq. Hall is to
				return to Washington on April 22.
			Story Filed By Cox Newspapers
		
	

	
		
			Ohio Congressman Arrives in Jordan
			AMMAN, Jordan (AP) U.S. Representative Tony Hall arrived in Jordan on
				Saturday en route to Iraq, where he is expected to look into the plight
				of Iraqis after nearly 10 years of U.N. trade sanctions.
			Hall, an Ohio Democrat and one of very few U.S. congressmen to visit
				Iraq since the 1991 Gulf War over Kuwait, is scheduled to embark Sunday
				the 12-hour overland trip to the Iraqi capital, Baghdad.
			He did not speak to reporters in Jordan, but he told The Associated
				Press before leaving the United States that he hopes to "separate the
				humanitarian work from the political issues." 
			During his four days in Iraq, Hall said he wanted to investigate
				reports from relief agencies that a quarter of Iraqi children may be
				suffering from chronic malnutrition.
			He said he would pay particular attention to what happens to food and
				medicine entering the country under the U.N. oil-for-food program. If
				supplies are not reaching the people who need them, Hall said, he wanted
				to find out whether the United Nations or relief agencies needed to
				handle things differently, or whether "Iraq needs to get out of the way
				and let us do the job."
			The Iraqi government blames the embargo for the malnutrition, infant
				mortality and other hardships.
			The sanctions cannot be lifted until U.N. inspectors certify that Iraq
				has eliminated its weapons of mass destruction and the means to produce
				them. Iraq says it has done so and has barred inspectors since late
				1998.
			At least one other congressman has visited Iraq. Energy Secretary Bill
				Richardson went to Baghdad in 1995 while a representative for New
				Mexico.
		
	

	
		
			Lawmaker Appeals for Innocent Iraqis
			By HASSAN ABDULWAHAB, Associated Press Writer BASRA, Iraq (AP)
			A U.S. lawmaker assessing the impact of U.N. sanctions on Iraq said
				Wednesday it is important not only to force Baghdad to give up its
				weapons of mass destruction but also to do more to ease the hardships on
				ordinary Iraqis.
			Rep. Tony Hall, D-Ohio, did not call for a lifting of sanctions imposed
				on Iraq for its 1990 invasion of Kuwait, but said the United Nations
				should make sure that sanctions do not hurt innocent Iraqis.
			"It was very, very important" to compel Iraq to rid itself of weapons
				of mass destruction so that "it cannot use or export them to other
				countries," he told Associated Press Television News.
			But he insisted the international community can do a much better job in
				helping Iraq deal with its economic and health problems.
			One way would be to speed up the flow of health supplies and other
				urgent commodities to the country under a U.N. humanitarian program, he
				said.
			Iraq says the United States and Britain hold up delivery of needed
				supplies, using their clout in the United Nations. The U.S. government
				says it wants to ensure that Iraq is not buying items that appear to be
				humanitarian in nature but that could be used for making weapons.
		
	

	
		
			IRAQ-POVERTY (Washington)
			Rep. Tony Hall, D-Ohio, urges the United Nations to allow a freer flow
				of food and medicine into Iraq. Hall, who recently returned from a trip
				to Iraq, said U.N. economic sanctions have hurt millions of civilians
				there.
			By AUSTIN ZALKIN.
		
	




SENATE ETHICS PANEL ADMONISHES NEW JERSEY SENATOR FOR CONDUCT RELATED TO
GIFTS

WASHINGTON
The Senate Ethics Committee on Tuesday night "severely admonished" Sen. Robert G. Torricelli,
D-N.J., saying he had violated Senate rules by accepting and failing to disclose expensive gifts
from a former contributor to whom he repeatedly gave help.
On the basis of thousands of pages of information developed in an earlier federal inquiry
into Torricelli's activities, the committee chastised him for using poor judgment and
disregarding Senate rules in his dealings with the former donor, David Chang.
"Your actions and failure to act led to violations of Senate rules (and related statutes) and
created at least the appearance of impropriety," the three Democrats and three Republicans on
the committee said in a three-page letter to Torricelli.
The ethics panel also ordered Torricelli to pay back Chang -- with interest -- for the full
value of a large-screen television set and compact-disc player, and for expensive earrings that
Chang gave to Torricelli's sister, to one of his close aides and to one of Torricelli's former
girlfriends.
The committee's action comes six months after federal prosecutors ended a lengthy criminal
investigation into Torricelli's activities without filing criminal charges.
The ethics panel, to which evidence from the criminal case was forwarded, concluded its review
just as Torricelli is gearing up his campaign for re-election against the Republican candidate,
Douglas R. Forrester. After months in which polls showed Torricelli well ahead of his relatively
unknown Republican rival, the contest has narrowed in recent weeks.
It was the first time that the Senate Ethics Committee had voted to take action against a
senator since 1995, when it recommended that Bob Packwood, an Oregon Republican, be expelled on
the ground of sexual and official misconduct. Packwood later resigned.
Sen. Daniel K. Inouye, D-Hawaii, who led the ethics inquiry, said he believed the
investigation was thorough and fair but would not offer a detailed description of the
committee's secret deliberations. "The document speaks for itself," said Inouye, who said that
he considered the matter closed with the letter.
Within minutes after the committee released its letter publicly, Torricelli took the Senate
floor Tuesday night to apologize to the people of New Jersey for allowing his seat in the
chamber "to be placed in this position."
During nearly seven hours of sworn testimony last week before the members and staff of the
ethics panel, Torricelli said that he had not taken any gifts from Chang, and that what items he
had accepted from the businessman he had later paid Chang for, one person familiar with his
account said.
Torricelli also insisted that he had not done any unusual favors for Chang, who first turned
to the senator in 1995 for help in winning the repayment of some $71 million he said he was then
owed in a failed business deal with the North Korean government.
The Ethics Committee was unconvinced.
In its letter, which was signed by all six members, the panel wrote that it was "troubled by
incongruities, inconsistencies and conflicts, particularly concerning actions taken by you which
were or could have been of potential benefit to Chang."
The committee criticized Torricelli for maintaining a "personal and official relationship with
Chang under circumstances where you knew that he was attempting to ingratiate himself, in part
through a pattern of attempts to provide you and those around you with gifts over a period of
several years."
During that time, the panel said, Torricelli and members of his Senate staff took a series of
actions to help Chang, contacting U.S. government officials, writing letters to foreign
government officials and bringing Chang or his business representatives into meetings with
foreign officials.
The committee did not confirm some of the most serious allegations, including Chang's claim
that he gave Torricelli tens of thousands of dollars in cash.
The committee said it had weighed the fact that Torricelli's principal accuser in the case had
been Chang, "a witness whose credibility has been called into question by the Department of
Justice, a United States District judge and his own conduct." In May, that judge sentenced
sentenced Chang to 18 months' imprisonment for obstructing justice and making $53,700 in illegal
campaign contributions to Torricelli's 1996 Senate campaign.
But at the time of Chang's sentencing, the judge, Alfred M. Wolin, also said the businessman
had cooperated closely with federal investigators, providing them with information that was
"material and credible."
The ethics committee has the power to punish lawmakers with sanctions ranging from public or
private letters of admonition to censure or expulsion. In Torricelli's case, it acted without
conducting a full investigation, saying the case had been exhaustively scrutinized by federal
authorities.
A lawyer for Chang, Bradley D. Simon, said Tuesday night that he was disappointed that the
ethics panel had confirmed only a handful of the gifts he said his client had given Torricelli,
and that the panel did not deal with what he said were actions by Torricelli to thwart the
federal investigation.
"This matter was far more serious than what the committee found," Simon said.
According to two government officials involved in the inquiry, the Ethics Committee received a
vast amount of information from federal investigators, some of it under a court order issued in
March.
That information included witness statements, store receipts and other documents indicating
that Chang had paid for expensive items given to Torricelli, his sister, one of his longtime
aides, Roberta Stern, and one of Torricelli's former girlfriends, Judy D. Balaban.
The committee's letter did not mention Chang's reported gifts to Torricelli of an $8,100 Rolex
watch, about a dozen Italian-made suits and a $3,816 antique grandfather clock. Nor did it cite
a $1,590 Oriental carpet that Chang gave to Torricelli's former wife, Susan Holloway Torricelli.
A government official involved in the inquiry said that evidence of those gifts was either
incomplete or the subject of conflicting accounts by different witnesses.
The committee confirmed Torricelli's claims he had made partial repayments to Chang for two
gifts: a large-screen television and a stereo compact-disc player. But it said the senator had
showed "poor judgment" by failing to reimburse him for the full market value of the gifts.
A person familiar with Torricelli's testimony to the committee said he had told its members
that he repaid the "wholesale" cost of the appliances because Chang told him that was what he
had paid.
The ethics panel also criticized Torricelli for taking two bronze statues on loan from Chang.
The statues, the existence of which had not been publicly known before, were displayed in
Torricelli's Senate office.
Finally, the committee appeared to have discounted Torricelli's contention that he was not
responsible for expensive earrings that Chang had given as Christmas gifts to his sister, Stern
and Balaban. The senator's belief "that such items were of little value or were not gifts to you
under the circumstances" displayed poor judgment and violated Senate gift rules, the panel
found.
According to a government official involved in the inquiry, the information reviewed by the
Ethics Committee also included an analysis by federal investigators showing that during the
period in which Chang claimed to have made numerous cash payments to Torricelli, the senator
spent thousands of dollars more in cash than investigators could account for from his bank
withdrawals and other known sources of income.
The analysis, which was assembled from banking and credit records, income-tax returns and
congressional financial-disclosure forms, showed by March of 1998, Torricelli's cash
expenditures were more than $22,000 in excess of the cash he had generated from checks and
automatic-teller machines, an official who has reviewed the document said.
A spokeswoman for Torricelli, Debra DeShong, said he had fully accounted for all the money he
had spent.
"Senator Torricelli provided the committee with a full explanation of sources of income and
any funds used for cash purposes," she said.
Even after the ethics committee admonished Torricelli on Tuesday night, one of his most
important political supporters, Senate majority leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D., continued to defend
him, stating that the panel had found Chang "a witness wholly without credibility."
Moving quickly to make a campaign issue of the Senate letter, Bill Pascoe, Forrester's
campaign manager, said the findings were evidence that Torricelli had undertaken an "extensive
campaign of misinformation and deceit," and called on him to release the sworn testimony he gave
to the panel.
Pascoe said, "Only then will New Jersey voters be able to decide Torricelli's fitness for
office."



POWELL IN BRUNEI FOR TERROR TALKS; BUT HUMAN RIGHTS REMAINS PERSISTENT
ISSUE
BANDAR SERI BEGAWAN, Brunei
U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell arrived here on Tuesday night for meetings with fellow
foreign ministers aimed at solidifying a second front, in Southeast Asia, in the campaign
against global terrorism. But he has had to balance that goal with longstanding concerns about
human rights abuses in the region.
In meetings on Tuesday in Malaysia and Singapore before touching down in this oil-producing
sultanate for two days of talks with members of the Association of South East Asian Nations,
Powell said he repeatedly raised the issue. "We still believe strongly in human rights, and that
everything we do has to be consistent with universal standards of human rights," he said.
But at a news conference in Singapore, Powell hinted that the Bush administration was ready to
discuss resuming military cooperation with Indonesia, the world's most populous Muslim nation
and a sometimes reluctant partner in the efforts to crack down on militant Islamic groups. The
United States cut virtually all military links with Indonesia in 1999 after its forces were
implicated in the violence that swept East Timor after that territory voted for
independence.
On Thursday, Powell and representatives of the nations of the Asian group, including
Indonesia, are expected to sign a declaration promising cooperation to prevent terrorism by
sharing information, blocking funds, tightening borders and making it hard to use forged travel
papers.
"We recognized that terrorism is a global threat and that the disturbing acts of terrorism and
transnational crimes, which continue to threaten world peace and stability, must be tackled by
the international community," the ministers said in a communique on Tuesday.
Powell is among the representatives from 13 nations outside Southeast Asia, including China,
Japan and Russia, that are taking part in the annual meeting of the group's regional forum.
Terrorism dominates the agenda, though the possibility of a meeting here between Powell and
his North Korean counterpart, Paek Nam Sun, has generated the most news. It would be the
highest-level contact between the United States and North Korea since President Bush took
office.
Powell heads to Indonesia's capital, Jakarta, late on Thursday before finishing a weeklong
trip through the region in the Philippines on Saturday. He said that when he arrives in Jakarta,
he will have "some ideas and some initiatives" to present to President Megawati
Sukarnoputri.
Indonesia is already receiving $400,000 in the current fiscal year for civilian training
programs and is to receive a like amount next year; and the United States expects to provide an
additional $16 million this year to train police officers in counterterrorism. At the same time,
the Pentagon is reviewing how to allocate another $17 million in "counterterrorism fellowships,"
some of which could go to Indonesia.
But a senior State Department official also acknowledged that some in the administration and
Congress are pushing for more direct military cooperation, which would require congressional
approval.
"I think they recognize the danger that we all face and I think they have been cooperating
more fully with us as time goes by, and I'm quite sure that Mrs. Megawati is committed to this
cause," Powell said in Singapore. He met there with Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong, who endorsed
the idea of renewed military ties between the United States and Indonesia as an important step
in stabilizing that country.
Powell contended that it was not inconsistent to want to foster cooperation even with an
organization like the Indonesian military, which has a history of human rights abuses. "If you
get young officers, expose them to a military organization that is within a democratic political
institution, such as the United States, then that rubs off on them," he said.
In Malaysia, Powell met with Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad, who has led the country since
1981. The Malaysian foreign minister, Syed Hamid Albar, later told local reporters that Powell
had proposed that American and Malaysian officials review the idea of forming a regional
training center in Malaysia to coordinate antiterrorism activities.
His brief stop in Malaysia also highlighted the moral ambiguities of the effort to prevent
terrorism and its emphasis on cooperation with governments that the United States has often
criticized.
The United States once distanced itself from Mahathir for strong-arm tactics with political
rivals, and human rights groups criticize him for arresting and jailing scores of suspected
militants, including some who may be linked to al-Qaida, without trial.
Powell said his discussions with Mahathir "touched on the case" of his former deputy, Anwar
Ibrahim, who is serving a 15-year sentence on charges of sodomy and abuse of power after trials
that Powell said the United States had "always felt" were flawed.
The assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific affairs, James Kelly, met on
Tuesday morning with Anwar's wife, Wan Azizah Wan Ismail, for what she later told Malaysian
reporters was a discussion about both the detention of her husband and six supporters, and the
campaign against terrorism.
MICROSOFT TEAMS WITH AT&T TO OFFER SOFTWARE FOR WIRELESS DEVICES AND
SERVICES
Microsoft plans to announce on Wednesday a partnership with AT&T Wireless Services to
offer software for wireless devices and services, a person close to the talks said Tuesday
night.
The deal would be part of Microsoft's drive to sign up wireless carriers to use its so-called
smart phone software -- a pared-down version of the Windows operating system -- and services
that Microsoft is developing as part of its .Net Internet strategy.
Neither Microsoft nor AT&T Wireless would comment.
The main market for the Microsoft-AT&T partnership is expected to be business customers.
Microsoft's efforts to persuade wireless carriers to use its cell phone operating system have
struggled. It has run into particular opposition from companies aligned with Nokia, which has
developed a competing software.
But Microsoft's potential advantage, analysts say, is its ability to link its cell phone
software to its desktop PC software, a Microsoft stronghold. Customers who want access to
Microsoft desktop e-mail, documents and calendar information may prefer Microsoft's wireless
technology.
In recent months, Microsoft has announced partnerships with wireless carriers like Verizon and
Sprint PCS.
MONTREAL TRADES FLOYD TO RED SOX FOR TWO PITCHERS
Less than three weeks after outfielder Cliff Floyd was imported to Montreal to play a pivotal
part in the Expos' playoff plans, he was traded to Boston Tuesday night to try his hand in what
the Red Sox hope will be their postseason plans.
Floyd did not produce the kind of offense the Expos expected from him, so Omar Minaya, the
Expos' aggressive rookie general manager, turned around and sent him to the Red Sox in exchange
two South Korean pitchers and a player yet to be named.
The teams made the deal less than 24 hours before Tuesday's 4 p.m. deadline for making trades
without first getting waivers on players. Minaya obtained Floyd from the Florida Marlins on July
11, only two weeks after he stunned baseball by acquiring Bartolo Colon from Cleveland.
Colon has won four of five decisions for the Expos, but Floyd batted only .208 for them while
hitting three home runs, including one Tuesday night, and driving in four runs. With the Marlins
Floyd bated .287, hit 18 home runs and drove in 57 runs.
The Expos, who had a 46-41 record when they made their first Floyd deal, had only a 7-12
record with him on the team, dropping from 9 1/2 games behind Atlanta in the National League
East to as many as 16 games back.
Floyd can be a free agent after this season, and Minaya decided it would be more prudent to
trade him and get value in return than have to settle for a draft choice or two as compensation
when he signed with another team as a free agent.
The Expos acquired Sun Woo-kim and Seung Jun-song. Kim, 24, is a right-handed pitcher from
Seoul. The Red Sox signed him in 1997. Song is a 22-year-old right-hander from Pusan. The Red
Sox signed him in 1999.
The Red Sox wanted to bolster their offense. They led the Yankees for most of the first three
months of the season but then slipped behind them in the American League East.
Earlier in the day Tuesday, one member of the Red Sox organization was not sure they would be
able to get Floyd. "I don't know that he's that serious about moving him," the person said of
Minaya.
But as the day wore on, the Red Sox tried harder and by Tuesday night were able to get the
player they wanted for their lineup.



EX-HOG OFFERS JUMP-START AND HELPS CHANGE LIVES
WASHINGTON
With the barrage of crack cocaine-connected killings in the 1980s came the realization that
young people were too often full-fledged players in the violence.
That was more evident here than in any other city, said George Starke, who after his career as
an offensive tackle with the Washington Redskins from 1973 to 1984 stuck around and decided to
make this place more than his home.
"There was death in D.C. throughout the '80s and into the '90s, and there was death
everywhere," said Starke, who was reared in New Rochelle, N.Y., and played at Columbia. "It
wasn't like New York's or Boston's organized crime. It was kids shooting kids. It was a
14-year-old from R Street who got his crew of six together and ran their drug block killing
another 14-year-old and his crew from a block away. And from the beginning I could see that it
was all about jobs. I could see that you needed the private sector involved."
Starke could see that in many instances these were cases of lost dignity. "I had a young man
come up to me three years ago and say, 'Mr. Starke, I'm tired of going to bed at night with a
Tech-9 gun under my pillow."'
And Starke was tired of seeing Washington and its young people suffer a black eye.
So, after six years of planning, he opened the Excel Institute Automotive Program, a two-year
school that gives people a chance at a new life as an auto technician or in another job related
to the field. The school, now in its third year, has been so successful that it recently
received a $2 million grant from Congress. The program is being copied by other cities and has
attracted students from all walks of life, ages 16 to 68.
The program is coordinated with the University of the District of Columbia. Students learn
automotive intricacies and can earn a a high school equivalency diploma. Thanks to Starke's
vision, leadership and fund-raising, they can do it all free.
Starke, 54, played in two Super Bowls and won one. He played for George Allen, Jack Pardee and
Joe Gibbs. In 1973, he was young enough to be a part of the Redskins' Over the Hill Gang, and in
1981 he was old enough to be one of the team's original Hogs. He was recently named one of the
70 greatest Redskins. He earned a physics degree from Columbia, became a Redskin, studied drama,
worked in sports broadcasting, opened a Washington restaurant and built his own home here when
he thought he might become a developer, "just so I could know how the business worked from the
ground up," he said. In 1988 he bought a Ford dealership. In 1992 he sold it to begin work on
the Excel Institute, putting up $300,000 to get things started.
"I saw a lot of kids and young men out there with no dads and no structure who couldn't read
and some of them were beginning to realize that there is no growing old as a crack dealer -- you
either die or go to jail," he said. "My experience in the automotive industry was there was a
dire shortage of auto technicians not only in America but internationally."
So, Starke matched a problem with a problem and found a solution.
The institute has a full-time staff of 18. Twelve of those are teachers. Seventy students are
participating in summer classes. Forty new students are expected for fall classes and there is a
waiting list of at least that many, Starke said.
Angela Nafis, 47, of Ecuador, has been in the school for a year. She learned to speak English,
got a driver's license and earned her GED.
Charles Easterling, 24, said he had been enrolled for a month but lived "wherever."
"I'm homeless now trying to find a place to lay my head," he said.
Starke said the school was helping Easterling find housing. Easterling said he would do
whatever it took to become stable.
John Orellana, 22, just got a technician's job at a Jiffy Lube last week. Not bad for a guy
who was kicked out of high school in 1997 for threatening a teacher.
"I did a lot of walking, got an interview and got a job and an opportunity of a lifetime,"
Orellana said. "It shows if you have the will and the dedication here you can learn a lot and be
something. It taught me maturity. This school is like a big family."
Edward Jewell, 56, retired from his job as a copyright assistant at the Library of Congress in
1993. "I've been flapping my wings since until I found this school," he said. "I needed a new
skill. This has been invaluable, enriching. I get up and come down here at 6 a.m. every day full
of joy and energized. I'm grateful to George Starke to have had the vision to set something like
this up, not just for me but for all the students. George is doing what he's supposed to be
doing because God is blessing him and he's sure blessing me. And when I become a technician, I
will help the poor and needy by giving them affordable rates."
Starke said the school would move to a building near the city's bus depot in the fall. The
city has talked with Starke about using his students for some vehicle repairs. He is proud of
the red Cobra 427 that sits in the school's workshop. It was rebuilt from shell to finish by his
first class and was included in the district's millennium celebrations.
His current class is rebuilding a black one. This one will be auctioned for the school.
"I just wanted to be a part," said Starke, who is certain he is the lone Redskin, past or
present, who lives in the city. He has lived here for 20 years. "A lot of kids are afraid of
'the process' and I wanted to take 'the process' out. For this school, once they are in, all
they have to do is come every day, come on time every day and work hard. A little more than 50
percent of our kids make it through. I want it to be more, but my job is not to see that
everybody makes it; my job is to see that everybody has the opportunity to make it."



 RARE COIN FETCHES RECORD $7.59 MILLION AT AUCTION 
NEW YORK
The 1933 double eagle, a $20 gold piece with a mysterious history that involves a president, a
king and a Secret Service sting operation, was auctioned Tuesday last night for a record price
for a coin, $7.59 million, nearly double the previous record.
The anonymous buyer, believed to be an individual collector who lives in the United States,
made the winning bid in a fiercely contested nine-minute auction at Sotheby's in Manhattan.
Eight bidders were joined by 500 coin collectors and dealers in an auction house audience
seemingly devoid of celebrity bidders, while an additional 534 observers followed the bidding on
eBay.
As auction houses prepare for their fall seasons in an uncertain economy, the sale price
"suggests that the marketplace for important items is enormously strong," said David Redden, a
vice chairman at Sotheby's, who was the auctioneer.
"This is an astonishing new record for a coin," he said.
In an unprecedented move, the auction proceeds were split by the U.S. Mint and a London coin
dealer, Stephen Fenton, who had won that right in court after having been arrested by Secret
Service agents for trying to sell the coin in the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in Manhattan in
1996.
Henrietta Holsman Fore, the director of the U.S. Mint, who witnessed the sale, said, "The
monies we receive will go toward helping to pay down the debt and to fight the war on
terrorism."
Fenton commented that the double eagle had been on "a long historic journey, with a very
satisfying ending."
He added, "I am thrilled with the price." The previous numismatic record holder was an 1804
U.S. silver dollar, which sold for $4.14 million in 1999.
Sotheby's partner in the one-lot auction was Stack's Rare Coins, with which it shared the
customary 15 percent commission. "I have never seen as much interest in the sale of any coin in
my 30 years in the business," said Lawrence R. Stack, the company's managing director.
"This is the Mona Lisa of coins," said Beth Deisher, editor of Coin World, the largest weekly
coin publication in the United States, with a circulation of 85,000. "It is unique. Forbidden
fruit."
Collectors' Web sites have surged with speculation about the sale price, and enthusiasts even
organized betting pools.
On Tuesday night, Redden took the podium for nine minutes before the gavel came down,
recognizing bidders in the audience and on the telephone. The tension in the crowd was broken
with a burst of applause after the $5 million mark, and a louder explosion at $6 million.
The rumor in the crowd had been that "anything under $6 million would be a bargain," said Ute
Wartenberg, executive director of the American Numismatic Society in Manhattan. Most bidders
dropped out after that price. The gavel sounded at $6.6 million after a Sotheby's senior vice
president, Selby Kiffer, made the final bid for the anonymous buyer on the telephone. The sale
price of $6.6 million, when added to the commission, totaled $7.59 million.
The auction attendance was swelled by coin collectors who had gathered on the eve of the
American Numismatic Association Convention, the largest coin show of the year, expected to draw
more than 10,000 people to the Marriott Marquis Hotel Wednesday. "So the auction was almost like
the ribbon-cutting ceremony for the convention," Stack said.
Fore of the mint said the high price for the coin was reached "because it is one of a kind, it
is beautiful and it has a great story."
The coin was the only 1933 double eagle that has ever been legally offered for sale, and its
Maltese Falconesque history only recently came to light, thanks to documents unearthed during
the five-year legal battle over its ownership.
In 1792, it was deemed that all gold and silver U.S. coins would bear the depiction of an
eagle, but gold pieces were issued only after a gold rush boom in 1850. They were called double
eagles because their face value was twice that of the original $10 gold piece.
Following the suggestion of President Theodore Roosevelt, the sculptor Augustus Saint-Gaudens
redesigned the coin in 1907 in high relief, forever after giving the coins the designation
"saints."
But in 1933, President Franklin D. Roosevelt took the United States off the gold standard, and
ordered all the 1933 saints already manufactured destroyed, save for two reserved for the
Smithsonian Institution. They were never declared legal currency.
Presumably after being stolen by a mint employee, nine double eagles surfaced during the
mid-1940s and 1950s. They were seized by the Secret Service and melted down. But before these
coins came to light, the royal legation of Egypt turned up with one at the Department of the
Treasury, and somehow got an official to issue an export license for the coin to enhance the
collection of King Farouk. By the time that blunder was discovered, the coin had left the United
States.
In 1954, after the king was deposed, his coins were sold at auction and the double eagle
vanished. It went underground until it came to Fenton in 1995. His arrest in Manhattan, after
attempting to sell the coin for $1.5 million, led to a court battle over whether -- thanks to
the Treasury's mistaken export permission in 1944 -- the coin could be legally owned.
The double eagle came close to being melted down many times. The coin once again escaped
destruction when it was moved from the Treasury Department vault in 7 World Trade Center eight
months before the building collapsed after the Sept. 11 terrorist attack.
The record price was seen as a gift by coin collectors. "Many people believe that our great
coin rarities are vastly undervalued in comparison to old master paintings," Deisher said.
In a ceremony after the sale, Fore of the mint declared the coin the only 1933 double eagle
ever to be legally issued by the U.S. government. This "monetized" the coin, making it legal
tender. The buyer will receive a certificate of transfer stating just that, but only after
paying the auction price and a fee of $20 for the face value of the coin.



ETHICS COMMITTEE CITES TORRICELLI'S 'POOR JUDGMENT'
Following are excerpts from the findings of the Senate Ethics Committee's report on Sen.
Robert G. Torricelli's dealings with David Chang:
1. Your acceptance of a television and stereo CD player upon payment from David Chang of an
amount you understood to be the cost to Mr. Chang, rather than fair market retail value,
evidenced poor judgment, displayed a lack of due regard for Senate rules and resulted in a
violation of the Senate Gifts Rules (35) and, consequently, a violation of your public
disclosure obligations under Senate rules.
2. Your acceptance on loan from Mr. Chang of bronze statues (eagle and bronco buster) for
display in your Senate office under your office's policy of accepting the loan of home state
artwork was not consistent with Senate rules governing such loans, evidenced poor judgment,
displayed a lack of due regard for the Senate rules and resulted in a violation of the Senate
Gifts Rule (35) and, consequently, a violation of your public disclosure obligations under
Senate rules.
3. Your failure to act to prevent the acceptance of or to pay for gifts of earrings from Mr.
Chang to individuals (your sister, an employee and a friend) in your home at Christmas on the
mistaken belief that such items were of little value or were not gifts to you under the
circumstances, evidenced poor judgment, displayed a lack of due regard for Senate rules and
resulted in a violation of the Senate Gifts Rule (35) and, consequently, a violation of your
public disclosure obligations under Senate Rule 34.
4. Continuation of a personal and official relationship with Mr. Chang under circumstances
where you knew that he was attempting to ingratiate himself, in part through a pattern of
attempts to provide you and those around you with gifts over a period of several years when you
and your Senate Office were taking official actions of benefit to Mr. Chang (contacting United
States Government officials, writing letters to foreign government officials and involving Mr.
Chang of his representatives in situations where you were meeting with officials of foreign
governments) evidenced poor judgment.
5. The committee has also considered that the principal source of the allegations against you
is David Chang, a witness whose credibility has been called into question by the Department of
Justice, a United States district judge and his own conduct. In court documents, the government
noted that Chang could not be trusted. On May 23, 2002, Mr. Chang was convicted of attempting to
corruptly persuade a witness to give false testimony, a conspiracy to violate the federal
election law and four violations of the federal election law.
6. After evaluating the extensive body of evidence before it and your testimony, the committee
is troubled by incongruities, inconsistencies and conflicts, particularly concerning actions
taken by you which were or could have been of potential benefit to Mr. Chang.
Therefore, the committee . . . expresses its determination that your actions and failure to
act led to violations of Senate rules (and related statutes) and created at least the appearance
of impropriety, and you are hereby severely admonished.
Further, the committee notes section 1(c)(1) of the Senate Gift Rule (35) concerning anything
which is paid for at market value or returned . . . as well as your commitment to pay for any
item which the committee might conclude were in violation of the rules, and has further
concluded that you must pay Chang an amount sufficient to bring the total to fair market retail
value of the TV and CD player, as well as the fair market retail value of the earrings given to
the three individuals at your home, with appropriate interest. The committee understands that
you have previously delivered the bronze statues to the Department of Justice, from whence they
should be returned to Chang.



MCCALL AD LONG ON INTRODUCTION
By SHAILA K. DEWAN 
NEW YORK

This 30-second commercial is the first in H. Carl
McCall's campaign for the Democratic nomination for governor and
will be broadcast upstate in major broadcast markets, and on cable
in New York City, starting today.
 
ON THE SCREEN

The words "His resume is an American dream," a quotation from
Time magazine, appear on the screen. A series of snapshots and
images are then a visual resume for McCall. They show him as an
Army lieutenant, at his swearing-in as a state senator, as
ambassador to the United Nations, surrounded by children as New
York City school board president, and at other jobs, leading up to
his current position, state comptroller. A photograph of the
candidate standing in his Army uniform next to his mother is shown,
then the advertisement shifts to McCall talking about education,
while images of the candidate looking at a computer screen with a
small child and of him surrounded by children appear. The action
then shifts to him in an office, speaking to the camera, as the
words "Experience. Excellence. Carl McCall" appear on the screen.
 
THE SCRIPT
A male voice says, "Time Magazine called his life an American
dream. Carl McCall, Army lieutenant, state senator, ambassador to
the United Nations, school board president, Citibank vice
president, and one of the most effective comptrollers in New York
history."
 
The candidate says: "I grew up poor with a single mother. She
said education's a sledgehammer. It can open doors to opportunity.
That's what education did for me. As governor, I'll make sure that
every kid in New York has the same opportunity I had, to get a good
education."
 
ACCURACY
 
This advertisement is long on introductions and short on claims
of merit. Thus, most of the facts presented are a matter of record.
He had the title of ambassador when he was at the United Nations,
but he was not the chief of the American mission. And Time magazine
actually called his resume, not his life, an American dream, but it
also followed that up with a reference to his life, saying he was
one of six children and raised on welfare. As for the claim about
his success as comptroller, where he controls the state pension
funds, there is no disputing the funds' growth during his terms,
but some critics say it had more to do with the buoyancy of the
stock market in the 1990s than skilled management.
 
SCORECARD
 
The advertisement attempts to make several points and reach
several different constituencies. For one, it counters the high
name recognition of Andrew M. Cuomo, McCall's opponent, by offering
voters a straightforward introduction to the candidate, emphasizing
his long list of high-level jobs in both the public and private
sector. It also emphasizes leadership, an important campaign issue
after Sept. 11. At the same time it gives McCall a chance to
intertwine his boot-straps story with the broader issue of children
and education, a priority of many Democratic voters. 
 
 


NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT OVERTURNS TRANSSEXUAL'S DEATH SENTENCE

By LAURA MANSNERUS
TRENTON, N.J.
The New Jersey Supreme Court on Tuesday
overturned the death sentence of Leslie Ann Nelson, a transsexual
go-go dancer who killed a police officer and an investigator with
an AK-47 rifle.
 
The court, vacating Nelson's death sentence for the second time,
ruled on two grounds: that the jury could have been confused by
instructions on the verdict sheet and that the prosecutor made
improper accusations in his closing argument. Nelson, 44, had been
the only woman of 14 people on New Jersey's death row.
 
The ruling, which does not affect Nelson's guilty plea, sends
the case back to the trial court for resentencing. The state
attorney general's office has not decided whether to seek the death
penalty again, a spokesman, Peter Aseltine, said Tuesday.
 
The court upheld the sentence of another death row inmate,
Robert O. Marshall, convicted of arranging the murder of his wife
at a picnic area on the Garden State Parkway.
 
In its 5-to-0 decision in the Nelson case, the court showed
continuing uneasiness with the death penalty, as it has done even
since adopting a voluminous set of review procedures in 1999 to
govern capital cases. New Jersey has not had an execution since
1963.
 
Justice James R. Zazzali and Justice Virginia Long said in a
separate opinion that in addition to the reasons given in the
majority opinion, also written by Zazzali, they believed the death
penalty would constitute cruel and unusual punishment because of
Nelson's history of emotional disturbance. Zazzali and Long had
expressed similar reservations in June 2001 when the court
overturned the death sentence of Thomas J. Koskovich, who was 18
when he killed two pizza deliverymen in an ambush.
 
The majority opinion Tuesday said the court would impose higher
standards in capital cases when reviewing prosecutors' conduct and
possibly ambiguous jury instructions.
 
While all five members of the majority found the instructions to
the jury on weighing aggravating and mitigating factors to be
confusing, two of those justices wrote in a partial dissent that
the prosecutor's statements in his summation about the defense's
expert witnesses were within the bounds of acceptable argument.
 
Two of the court's members, Chief Justice Deborah T. Poritz and
Justice Peter G. Verniero, did not participate in the Nelson case
because both are former attorneys general.
 
Nelson, born Glenn Nelson, had severe psychological problems and
a history of reclusive behavior into adulthood, and was convicted
on a weapons charge in 1988. After undergoing sex change surgery in
1992, she pursued a career as an exotic dancer.
 
In April 1995, while she was living with her parents in Haddon
Heights, outside Philadelphia, law enforcement officers arrived at
the house with a warrant for Nelson's arrest on another weapons
charge. During a 14-hour standoff, she killed a patrolman and an
investigator from the Camden County prosecutor's office.
 
She pleaded guilty to murder and was sentenced to death by a
jury in 1997. The Supreme Court overturned that sentence in July
1998, ruling that the prosecution had failed to disclose important
information to the jury.
 
A second jury sentenced Nelson to death in March 2001.
 
In Marshall's case, the 5-1 decision upheld a lower court's
dismissal of his petition for further review of his 1986 murder
conviction. Marshall, an insurance agent from Toms River, was
convicted of hiring a man to kill his wife while the couple were
going home after an evening of dining and gambling in Atlantic
City. The case was the subject of Joe McGinniss' best-selling book
"Blind Faith."
 
 
 

EDITORIAL: THE SHAME OF EGYPT 

The New York Times said in an editorial for Wednesday, July 31:
 

President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt describes himself as America's
leading Arab ally. Yet his anti-democratic behavior is an
embarrassment to Washington and an affront to his own people. The
latest example is Monday's re-sentencing of Saad Eddin Ibrahim, a
sociologist and human rights activist, to seven years in prison for
his efforts to register voters, monitor elections and report
attacks on Egypt's Coptic Christians.
 
Ibrahim, who holds dual United States and Egyptian citizenship,
is 63 years old and ailing. The verdict should be annulled, not
just on humanitarian grounds but because his prosecution is an
abrogation of the most basic standards of justice. Ibrahim's harsh
punishment sends a chilling message to Egyptians yearning for a
more accountable and tolerant society.
 
Egyptian courts are neither fair nor independent. Like every
other government institution, they hew closely to Mubarak's wishes.
That is especially true of the State Security Court that ruled in
this case. Ibrahim might never have been tried had he not written
an article taking note of Mubarak's efforts to create a
presidential dynasty. Nor is it likely his sentence would have been
reaffirmed if Mubarak believed that convicting an American citizen
for promoting democracy and human rights might jeopardize his own
standing with the Bush administration and the $2 billion annual
American subsidy that keeps his government afloat.
 
That aid bonanza was granted to reward Mubarak's predecessor,
Anwar Sadat, for signing a peace treaty with Israel. Washington has
never demanded good governance and democracy from Cairo in return.
In recent months President Bush has spoken of the need to promote
democracy in the Arab world. But so far he has pushed the point
only with the Palestinians. It is time to extend this policy to
Egypt.
 
While hardly the worst example of dictatorship in the Middle
East, Egypt is one of the saddest. It is a country with a long and
glorious history, a substantial middle class, a peace treaty with
Israel and large quantities of American aid. Under Mubarak it has
squandered economic and diplomatic opportunities and relentlessly
stifled political debate. Its official media are awash in
anti-American and anti-Semitic propaganda.
 
The State Department and American officials in Cairo have issued
diplomatically phrased protests of Ibrahim's trial and sentence.
This is entirely insufficient. What is needed is a message
delivered personally by Bush and other top officials not only about
the inexcusable treatment of Ibrahim but of the contemptuous
approach to democratic values.
 



EDITORIAL: GOVERNOR PATAKI WEIGHS IN

The New York Times said in an editorial for Wednesday, July 31:
 

Responding to a wave of public dismay over the first designs for
rebuilding Lower Manhattan, Gov. George Pataki has sent word that
it's time to go back to the drawing board. It is the right message,
sent while it is still early enough to do something constructive
about the disappointing quality of the work so far. The governor,
like Mayor Michael Bloomberg, now seems committed to creating a
better mix of uses for ground zero, and a 24-hour community in
Manhattan's downtown.
 
While rethinking the plans will delay the original rebuilding
schedule slightly, it does not need to stall progress if the
governor keeps the pressure on the Lower Manhattan Development
Corp. and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. New York
cannot afford to have a gaping hole that mocks the city and its
process for rebuilding what was destroyed.
 
Pataki openly questioned the Port Authority's requirement that
any plan for the site replace all the office, hotel and retail
square footage lost in the attack on Sept. 11. More than anything
else, that specification limited the designs to the undistinguished
options presented two weeks ago. Renegotiating that issue with the
World Trade Center leaseholders should begin immediately. Opening
the process to other designers, both here and internationally, will
help separate this urban plan from the ordinary.
 
The city also needs to begin openly discussing what happens
underground, in particular with the transportation network. At this
point, planners have focused on short-term repair of PATH and
subway lines, with medium-range proposals being shopped in
Washington that could untangle the disorganized web of subway lines
downtown. Within the next few weeks the Lower Manhattan Development
Corp. and the Port Authority should offer some bigger ideas about
how to connect the downtown area better to the rest of the region.
 
Lowering West Street alongside the World Trade Center site and
building a park or esplanade on top is another option that has been
popular with those reviewing the first six public proposals. But it
would be expensive, and the governor, the mayor and their friends
in Washington will have to look at long-range ways to pay the bill.
 
Pataki's recent remarks are a sign that he understands how
central the rebuilding of Lower Manhattan will be to his own
political legacy. Now he needs to follow through with action, to
keep demonstrating that his core concern is coming up with the best
possible plan, not simply keeping the issue on hold until after
this fall's election.

 


EDITORIAL: A PALLID CLEAN AIR PLAN
The New York Times said in an editorial for Wednesday, July 31:
 

President Bush has now unveiled his long-awaited "Clear Skies"
proposal, which he promises will simplify and strengthen the Clean
Air Act without crippling American industry. A debate on how to
make the 32-year-old Clean Air Act a stronger and more efficient
instrument is surely long overdue. But the Bush plan falls well
short of the only other credible proposal on the table, a bill
sponsored by Sen. James Jeffords, Independent of Vermont.
 
Like Jeffords, the president calls for substantial reductions in
three major pollutants -- the nitrogen oxides that produce smog,
sulfur dioxide, which causes acid rain, and mercury. But he ignores
emissions of carbon dioxide, the main global warming gas. That is a
huge omission. Even for the pollutants he addresses, Bush's
timetable is too leisurely. He aims to reduce all three by 70
percent by 2018. The Jeffords proposal would make the same sizable
reductions by 2008. Finally, the Bush proposal would roll back key
provisions of the existing Clean Air Act that Jeffords would keep.
 
Bush argues that the regulatory mechanisms he has in mind for
reaching Clear Skies' goals, chiefly a market-based emissions
trading scheme, will be so effective that the need for many
existing rules will disappear. This page has long embraced
emissions trading as an essential tool for reducing pollution at
manageable cost. We also agree that the law needs streamlining. But
some regulations, aimed at specific regional problems that
nationwide trading alone is unable to address, cannot lightly be
abandoned.
 
Among these are rules governing emissions that limit visibility
in the national parks, and rules governing pollution that drifts
eastward from Midwestern power plants. Indeed, Bush has already
made clear his intention to roll back one of the most important of
these regulations, a provision known as new source review that
compels utilities to install modern pollution controls whenever
they significantly upgrade older plants.
 
The 1970 Clean Air Act is a landmark statute, deserving of
thoughtful improvement. The Bush bill, as written, is not the way
to get there.
 




	
		
			 Inauguration of free zone in Dubai for e-commerce
			 Dubai 10-28 (FP) - Dubai's Crown Prince Sheikh Mohamed Bin Rashid Al
				Maktoum inaugurated a free zone for e-commerce today, called Dubai
				Internet City.
			 The preliminary stages of the project, the only one of its kind
				according to its designers, are estimated at $200 million.
			 Sheikh Mohamed, who is also the Defense Minister of the United Arab
				Emirates, announced at the inauguration ceremony that "we want to make
				Dubai a new trading center."
			 The minister, who has his own website, also said: "I want Dubai to be
				the best place in the world for state-of-the-art technology companies."
			 He said companies engaged in e-commerce would be able to set up
				offices, employ staff and own equipment in the open zone, including
				fully-owned foreign companies.
			 The e-commerce free zone is situated in north Dubai, near the
				industrial free zone in Jebel Ali, the top regional and tenth
				international leading area in container transit.
			 The inauguration of Dubai Internet City coincides with the opening of
				an annual IT show in Dubai, the Gulf Information Technology Exhibition
				(Gitex), the biggest in the Middle East.
		
	

	
		
			 Launching the Electronics Free Trade Zone in Dubai
			 Dubai 01-82 (AFP) - Crown Prince of Dubai Al Sheikh Mohammed bin
				Rashid Al Maktoom crown prince of Dubai launched today, i.e. on
				Saturday, an electronics free e-trade zone which has been named "Dubai
				Internet City"
			 The cost in the first stage of this unique project is estimated at 200
				million dollars.
			 Sheikh Mohammed, who is also the UAE Defence Minister, said during the
				launching ceremony "we wish to make Dubai a center of modern economy".
			 The minister who has a personal website on the internet, further said
				that he wanted Dubai to become the best place in the world for the
				advanced (hitech) technological companies.
			 He said that it would he possible for the companies working in the
				electronic trade sector to make Dubai their headquarters, and to
				establish offices here and provide employment and own machinery in the
				zone opened to companies fully owned by the foreigners.
			 The electronic trade free trade zone is situated in the north of
				Dubai, close to the free industrial zone in Jabal Ali Mountain, an area
				which is considered to be the first in the country, and tenth in the
				world for transit movement.
			 Launching 'Dubai Internet city ' coincided with the opening of the
				annual information fair in Dubai which is considered to be the biggest
				in the Middle East - Gulf Information Technology Getix.'
		
	


 NYT20020731.0376 
 2002-07-31 23:53 

A4931 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r s BC-BBA-ANGNOTE-LADN     07-31 0711


 BC-BBA-ANGNOTE-LADN 

ANGELS MAKE TRADE TO GET OUTFIELD DEPTH

 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
By JOE HAAKENSON 
c.2002 San Gabriel Valley Tribune 



   ANAHEIM, Calif. -- The Anaheim Angels got help where they felt
they
needed it most, agreeing to trade for Milwaukee Brewers outfielder
Alex Ochoa only hours before Wednesday's nonwaiver trading
deadline.


   In addition to Ochoa, the Angels got minor-league catcher Sal
Fasano. In return, the Brewers got backup catcher Jorge Fabregas
and
two players to be named later. By rule, the players to be named
later
cannot be players on the active major-league roster.


   In the past week, the Angels deemed outfield depth their biggest
need, above adding a reliever to the bullpen. Orlando Palmeiro was
the only backup outfielder on the major-league roster and the
outfielders in the minor-league system are too inexperienced to be
counted on in a pennant race.


   In Ochoa, 30, the Angels get an experienced major-league
outfielder
who is hitting .256 with six homers and 21 RBI this season. Ochoa
has
played in the majors for five different teams starting in 1995. His
best season came in 2000 with the Reds, when he hit .316 with 13
homers and 56 RBI. Going into this season, he was a career .281
hitter.


   "He gives you a lot in all areas," Angels general manager Bill
Stoneman said. "He's a good defender, he has a good arm, he plays
the tough right-field position and plays it well. He's a
right-handed
bat, which complements Palmeiro off the bench.


   "From a realistic standpoint, were we going to find an
outfielder
that pushed one of our outfielders to the bench? The answer is no.
He
accepts his role with a club and he's a team guy. He's got that
reputation and that's important to us, especially a club like ours
that is an egoless club."


   Ochoa will join the club today in Anaheim before tonight's game
against the Yankees. He said he's fine with his role as a reserve
outfielder and pinch hitter.


   "I've done that a lot in my career," Ochoa said during a
conference call. "Coming in, they've got three great outfielders.
I
knew that from the get-go."


   Ochoa's new teammates were generally pleased with the move, even
if
it wasn't a blockbuster.


   "It's not the big, earth-shattering stuff," right fielder Tim
Salmon said. "But we didn't need something earth-shattering right
now. It didn't seem like we had a lot of holes to fill. It's good,
it
gives us something we didn't have and we didn't lose much."


   --It's because of Molina: The Angels felt they could part with
Fabregas because of the play of catcher Jose Molina. Molina spent
all
season at Triple-A Salt Lake before joining the major-league club
July 17 to replace his injured brother, Bengie.


   Bengie is expected to be activated from the disabled list today,
giving the Angels both Molina brothers on the active major-league
roster for the first time.


   "I feel bad for Jorge, he's a good friend of mine," Bengie
said.
"But they liked the way (Jose) has played and they're giving him a
chance. I'm very excited we'll be on the same team for a while."


   Jose went into Wednesday's game hitting .304 and had thrown out
33
percent (two of six) of baserunners trying to steal. Angels
pitchers
had a 3.33 ERA with Jose catching, better even than Bengie's 3.69.


   "I just hope they keep me here," Jose said.


   Ochoa took Fabregas' spot in the roster, but the Angels will
have
to clear another spot today to make room for Bengie. Infielder Jose
Nieves is likely to be sent down, but since he is out of options,
he
would have to clear waivers before he could join Triple-A Salt
Lake.


   --Not expected: Fabregas, who hit .193 with no homers and eight
RBI
in 35 games with the Angels this season, said he was "surprised
and
shocked" to get traded from a pennant contender to a team 22
games
out in the NL Central.


   "I understand baseball moves, I've been through this before,"
said Fabregas, who is headed for his eighth major-league team.
"Obviously I'm disappointed to go from a team playing for first
place to a team that isn't contending.


   "I felt like I was a big part of the team. I went through the
struggles last year and I wanted to be a part of it in the good
times."



NYT-07-31-02 2353EDT 




 NYT20020731.0375 
 2002-07-31 23:52 

A4928 &Cx1f; taf-z
u s BC-FIG-OLY-ARREST-1STLD-     07-31 1937


 BC-FIG-OLY-ARREST-1STLD-WRITETHRU-NYT 

OLYMPIC JUDGING SCANDAL DEEPENS WITH ARREST OF RUSSIAN CRIME
FIGURE 

(EDS: SUBS for rewriting throughout.) 
By RICHARD SANDOMIR    
c.2002 New York Times News Service   



   A Russian accused of being in organized crime was arrested in
Italy on Wednesday on an American complaint that he conspired to
fix the pairs figure skating and ice dancing competitions at the
recent Salt Lake Winter Olympics, which were dominated by the
sport's judging scandals.


   The Russian, Alimzhan Tokhtakhounov, who was arrested by the
Italian authorities at his resort home in Forte dei Marmi, appeared
to have a singular motivation for rigging the competitions: getting
a visa to return to France, where he once lived.


   The federal prosecutor in Manhattan alleged in a criminal
complaint that Tokhtakhounov had conceived and directed a scheme
with a second man alleged to be in the Russian mob and a member of
the Russian Skating Federation to secure a gold medal for the top
Russian pairs skaters and for the top French ice dancers, one of
whom is a Russian.


   The Russian team of Yelena Berezhnaya and Anton Sikharulidze
narrowly won the gold medal over the Canadians Jamie Sale and David
Pelletier, who were later awarded a duplicate gold medal because of
the ensuing judging controversy. Sale and Pelletier declined to
comment on Wednesday.


   The French ice dancers, Marina Anissina and Gwendal Peizerat,
later won the gold over a Russian team.


   The complaint casts the Salt Lake City figure skating scandal in
a more serious light than the cronyism and vote-swapping that have
tainted the increasingly troubled sport. Over the past four years,
four judges have been suspended, including a Ukrainian who was
taped by a Canadian judge detailing the order of finish for the ice
dancers before the 1998 Winter Games in Nagano, Japan.


   If convicted of the charges against him -- conspiracy to commit
wire fraud and conspiracy to commit bribery, both felonies _
Tokhtakhounov faces maximum prison time of 10 years and a fine of
$500,000 or more. The United States is seeking his extradition from
Italy.


   The Italian authorities provided the FBI with information from
wiretaps of Tokhtakhounov's home telephone, part of an
investigation into his criminal activities. The FBI said explicit
conversations about the scheme had been recorded between
Tokhtakhounov and his conspirators, and between him and Anissina,
who was born in Russia and skated for France, and her mother.


   The FBI cited a vivid conversation with Anissina's mother in
which Tokhtakhounov assured her that even if her daughter "falls,
we will make sure she is No. 1."


   After the Winter Olympics, a French judge, Marie-Reine Le
Gougne, was suspended by the International Skating Union for not
reporting pressure she said was put on her by Didier Gailhaguet,
president of the French Skating Federation, to vote for the Russian
pairs team.


   She later recanted and said that Canadian officials had
pressured her. The ISU later suspended Le Gougne and Gailhaguet for
three years.


   The federal complaint did not describe the possibility of a
wider conspiracy or any contact between Tokhtakhounov, or his
unnamed co-conspirators, with Le Gougne.


   "We have alleged no connection between this man with any
officials other than with Russian federation officials," James B.
Comey, the U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York,
said at a news conference.


   He said that Tokhtakhounov "reached out to a co-conspirator,
somebody connected to the Russian Skating Federation, who did the
legwork for him."


   Maxwell Miller, Le Gougne's lawyer in Salt Lake City, said no
evidence of organized crime influence came up in her suspension
hearings before the ISU "I think this situation vindicates the
argument that we've made all along," he said. "She's a scapegoat
and a target of a corrupt system and was unfairly singled out."


   Tokhtakhounov, whose age was given by Comey as 53 or 62, is a
"major figure in international Eurasian organized crime," Comey
said.


   Born in Tashkent, Uzbekistan, and now a Russian citizen, he is
known as Taivanchik, or Little Taiwanese, for his Central Asian
ethnic background. Since the collapse of the Soviet Union, he has
been implicated in arms trading and Russian art smuggling, and in
the Russian news media he was accused of complicity in a plot to
extort $10 million from the head of a Russian sports foundation.


   He appears to have moved to France in 1989, according to news
media reports, and is reported to have Israeli citizenship also.
Comey said Tokhtakhounov had three residences in Italy: Forte dei
Marmi, Rome and Milan.


   The complaint against Tokhtakhounov's traces his contact with
figure skating to 2000, when he proposed to Gailhaguet the creation
of a professional hockey team in Paris that would provide revenue
for the French Skating Federation. ( Gailhaguet and Anissina are
not referred to by name in an accompanying FBI agent's affidavit,
but by their descriptions their identities are obvious.)


   In return, Gailhaguet told the FBI on Feb. 23 as the Olympics
were taking place, Tokhtakhounov asked for Gailhaguet's help in
renewing his French visa, which was about to expire.


   But when Gailhaguet sought guidance from a French government
official, he was told that "Tokhtakhounov's money is bad," the
affidavit said.


   The federal complaint offers many details of the alleged
conspiracy, including excerpts from a transcript of the Italian
wiretaps.


   later suspended Le Gougne and Gailhaguet for three years.


   The federal complaint did not describe the possibility of a
wider conspiracy or any contact between Tokhtakhounov, or his
unnamed co-conspirators, with Le Gougne.


   "We have alleged no connection between this man with any
officials other than with Russian federation officials," James B.
Comey, the U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York,
said at a news conference.


   He said that Tokhtakhounov "reached out to a co-conspirator,
somebody connected to the Russian Skating Federation, who did the
legwork for him."


   Maxwell Miller, Le Gougne's lawyer in Salt Lake City, said no
evidence of organized crime influence came up in her suspension
hearings before the ISU "I think this situation vindicates the
argument that we've made all along," he said. "She's a scapegoat
and a target of a corrupt system and was unfairly singled out."


   Tokhtakhounov, whose age was given by Comey as 53 or 62, is a
"major figure in international Eurasian organized crime," Comey
said.


   Born in Tashkent, Uzbekistan, and now a Russian citizen, he is
known as Taivanchik, or Little Taiwanese, for his Central Asian
ethnic background. Since the collapse of the Soviet Union, he has
been implicated in arms trading and Russian art smuggling, and in
the Russian news media he was accused of complicity in a plot to
extort $10 million from the head of a Russian sports foundation.


   He appears to have moved to France in 1989, according to news
media reports, and is reported to have Israeli citizenship also.
Comey said Tokhtakhounov had three residences in Italy: Forte dei
Marmi, Rome and Milan.


   The complaint against Tokhtakhounov's traces his contact with
figure skating to 2000, when he proposed to Gailhaguet the creation
of a professional hockey team in Paris that would provide revenue
for the French Skating Federation. ( Gailhaguet and Anissina are
not referred to by name in an accompanying FBI agent's affidavit,
but by their descriptions their identities are obvious.)


   In return, Gailhaguet told the FBI on Feb. 23 as the Olympics
were taking place, Tokhtakhounov asked for Gailhaguet's help in
renewing his French visa, which was about to expire.


   But when Gailhaguet sought guidance from a French government
official, he was told that " Tokhtakhounov's money is bad," the
affidavit said.


   The federal complaint offers many details of the alleged
conspiracy, including excerpts from a transcript of the Italian
wiretaps.


   On Feb. 5, the Italian wiretaps recorded Tokhtakhounov's request
to someone identified as another Russian mobster to get the number
of a Russian Skating Federation official. The second mobster told
Tokhtakhounov that the federation official "is close to us -- he is
a good guy, he will do it."


   Tokhtakhounov's action apparently came soon after he said he
received a phone call from the mother of the female ice dancer,
presumably Anissina.


   A week later, after Berezhnaya and Sikharulidze's pairs victory,
the mobsters spoke again. The second mobster expressed satisfaction
with the outcome of the competition and suggested that
Tokhtakhounov could call the ice dancer's "mother or the father
and tell them everything will be OK" He appears to be referring to
Anissina.


   The second mobster added, "Our Sikharulidze fell, the Canadians
were 10 times better, and in spite of that the French with their
vote gave us first place." He added: "Everything is going the way
you need it."


   They also discussed the coming judging in ice dancing, in which
the French and the Italian teams were the favorites. The second
mobster said the French pair had "only three judges," and of the
two judges they needed to win the gold medal "one is ours, and the
other our friends will give them." Their concern for lining up
more votes than they thought the Italian ice dancers had may stem
from the Italian team's defeat of Anissina and Peizerat in the 2001
world championships.


   But they seemed pleased that the Russian pair's victory was
achieved with the French judge's vote. "The French have nothing
but the ice dancing," the second mobster said.


   Again, Tokhtakhounov voiced his need to have his French visa
extended, and he said Anissina had tried to help him but Gailhaguet
had thwarted her.


   Also on Feb. 12, a week before the ice dancing finals,
Tokhtakhounov told Anissina's mother in a telephone call that the
Russian federation official "had called me from America" to
assure that "we are going to make" Anissina "an Olympic
champion." He told her that the Russian skating federation
official "will help -- he has two or three judges."


   On or about March 7, in a conversation between Tokhtakhounov and
Anissina, she said she would have won the event without his
assistance because the Russian judge did not vote for her and her
partner.


   She also apologized for not calling to thank him earlier, but
that Gailhaguet had forbidden her. She told Tokhtakhounov that she
knew the FBI had interviewed Gailhaguet because of information that
Tokhtakhounov "was involved with the results" of the ice dancing.
He assured her that it was nonsense, but that Gailhaguet "knows my
name very well -- he tried to help me, and later he made stuff up to
scare you so you would not connect me to him even more."


   The conversations seem to indicate a familiarity between
Tokhtakhounov and Anissina. Tass, the official Russian news agency,
reported that Anissina attended a ceremony in 1999 at a Paris hotel
honoring Tokhtakhounov for his philanthropy.


   That Russian organized crime may have infiltrated international
sport at the Olympics stunned Phyllis Howard, president of the U.S.
Figure Skating Association.


   "This is a criminal act and it certainly puts things in a
different league," Howard said.


   Lloyd Ward, chief executive officer of the U.S. Olympic
Committee, said in a statement, "Competitors from all nations must
be assured that they compete on a level playing field."  



NYT-07-31-02 2352EDT 





 NYT20020731.0371 
 2002-07-31 23:38 

A4917 &x1f; taf-z
u f BC-IBM-CHIPS-1STLD-WRITE     07-31 0925


 BC-IBM-CHIPS-1STLD-WRITETHRU-(TRIM)-NYT 
  
 IBM OPENS $2.5 BILLION CHIP PLANT IN UPSTATE NEW YORK  
 (SUBS 1st
    graf with CORRECTION. No other changes.) 
 By STEVE LOHR  
 c.2002 New York Times News Service   



   EAST FISHKILL, N.Y. -- IBM opened a sprawling and sophisticated
semiconductor factory here on Wednesday that cost more than $2.5
billion to build and equip, the largest single capital investment
the company has ever made.


   The factory, which opens as the computer chip business is in a
slump, is a costly and risky move for IBM. But it is also an
expression of confidence by the company that it can remain a
technology leader in the highly competitive global semiconductor
industry, and a commitment that the best place to execute that
strategy is in upstate New York.


   IBM is an exception among computer makers in that it still
invests heavily in research to advance the design, manufacture and
materials used in semiconductor chips. It is spending more than
$500 million a year on semiconductor research and development.


   The factory will produce a wide range of specialized
semiconductors used in everything from the largest mainframe
computers to cell phones and video-game consoles.


   The new plant is part of IBM's push to gain a strong lead in
chip-making beyond the personal computer business, where Intel and
East Asian chip producers hold the advantage.


   "The core of our strategy is to lead in technology and attack
the high-performance segments of the market," said John Kelly,
senior vice president in charge of IBM's technology group.


   An advantage to having the semiconductor fabricating factory
here, Kelly explained, was that it was very close to its research
laboratories in nearby Westchester County, N.Y. To stay ahead in
advanced chip technology, he said, moving innovations out of the
labs and into the factory as fast as possible is crucial.


   "What we call the lab-to-fab time should be as close to zero as
possible," Kelly said. "If our strategy were anything but to be
on the leading edge, we'd have put the plant in Asia."


   The new factory, which will begin normal production early next
year, will employ about 1,000 people.


   (BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM)


   In remarks during a ribbon-cutting ceremony here on Wednesday,
Gov. George E. Pataki said he expected the facility to generate
thousands more jobs in the Hudson Valley area for contractors and
suppliers catering to the factory. He praised IBM for being "a
critical partner in our economic development efforts" in New York
state.


   In a brief speech, Samuel J. Palmisano, IBM's chief executive,
emphasized that it was important to make long-term investments
despite the current slump in the technology business. "To play to
win in technology, you innovate and you lead," he said.


   But manufacturing technology products is a costly and cyclical
business. In June, IBM announced that it was taking a charge of
more than $2 billion against earnings. The largest single reasons
for the charge were the cost of getting out of the business of
manufacturing hard disks for storage, which it sold to Hitachi, and
closing down some of its older semiconductor operations.


   But Kelly said the demand for advanced chips, like those
produced at IBM's facility in Burlington, Vt., is strong. "I need
more capacity in that end of the market," he said, "and this is
factory is critical to meeting that growing demand."


   If IBM has miscalculated the demand, it will suffer badly as
both the high operating costs and depreciation on the huge capital
investment for the East Fishkill factory drag down earnings. But
industry analysts said the plant should be insulated from a falloff
in one or a few segments of the semiconductor market.


   (END OPTIONAL TRIM)


   The factory is highly automated and designed to shift flexibly
to produce many different kinds of chips to suit demand. "The
diversity is the big difference with this plant," said Richard
Doherty, president of Envisioneering, a research firm. "It gives
IBM the capability to make so many different kinds of custom chips,
and the world is going to custom chips."


   The 140,000-square-foot plant is a testament to advanced
manufacturing technology. The 300-millimeter silicon wafers -- about
the size of a standard pizza -- are shuttled around the facility in
enclosed plastic pods, which ride on overhead tracks. They drop
down from wires automatically into machines, sheathed in stainless
steel and glass, for each stage of processing and fabrication.


   Throughout the 500 processing steps, which typically last 20
days, the wafers are not touched by human hands. The circuits
etched into the chips are less than one thousandth the width of a
human hair.


   Human operators are there to monitor the systems, catch errors
and fine-tune the production process for maximum efficiency.
Because each of the hundreds of processing machines is
self-enclosed, and essentially airtight, the uniforms operators
wear are less constricting than in the previous generation of chip
plants, which looked like space suits.


   The operators at the East Fishkill factory wear light nylon
uniforms, light blue shoe coverings and translucent hair nets made
of paper. They look more like workers in a bakery.


   Yes, said Richard Brilla, director of the new facility, "but
the donuts are a lot more costly here." Each wafer, holding
hundreds of chips, is worth $6,000 to $10,000 apiece, depending on
what insulation, circuitry and materials are used.




NYT-07-31-02 2338EDT



 NYT20020731.0312 
 2002-07-31 21:30 

A4696 &Cx1f; tad-z
u s BC-FBC-SEC-NOTES-0801-CO     07-31 0671


 BC-FBC-SEC-NOTES-0801-COX 
  
 Vandy has big plans  
By KAREN ROSEN  
Cox News Service  



   BIRMINGHAM, Ala. -- Since he took the head coaching job at
bottom-dwelling Vanderbilt, the question Bobby Johnson is asked
most often is not, "Why will things be different under you?"


   "The most-asked question is, `Do you know you look like Steve
Martin?' " Johnson said to the assembled writers at SEC Kickoff
2002.


   So -- does he? "Yeah, I do," said Johnson, who has a full head
of gray hair in common with the comedian-turned-playwright. "I was
stopped in San Francisco one time by a Japanese tour bus. I swear.
They all thought I was Steve Martin. They jumped out and said,
`Hollywood, Hollywood.' I got my picture taken with them and signed
a few Steve Martin autographs."


   Johnson will be signing plenty of autographs with his own name
if he reaches his goal this year.


   "I'm planning to win every game we play," he said.


   Just another wild and crazy guy.


   Date with destiny: After Vanderbilt opens with Georgia Tech, the
Commodores will play host to Furman, which is Johnson's former team
and a Division I-AA powerhouse.


   Did he consider trying to cancel? "Let me just say that three
years ago when we scheduled that game, I was feeling pretty good
about it," Johnson said. "They're seasoned, they know how to win
and we're going to have to deal with that. They're going to be
tough to beat"


   Heavy duty: Auburn football players are reminded of last year's
losses every time they go into the weight room. T-shirts hanging on
the wall are inscribed with the scores of each of the Tigers' five
defeats.


   "We see that crimson (from the Alabama loss) every day," tight
end Lorenzo Diamond said, "and that's a big motivational factor
for us.


   "But I think we've moved past last season. We haven't totally
forgotten about it, but we're looking forward to this upcoming
season. And to play well this season, we have to let last season
go."


   Mirror image: Ole Miss coach David Cutcliffe said that tempo is
the only difference between quarterback Eli Manning and his brother
Peyton, who played for Cutcliffe at Tennessee. "Every quarterback
has a different rhythm," Cutcliffe said. "Outside of that, he
looks like a clone to me." Now that Eli has put on about 15 pounds
and weighs about 220, his size is closer to Peyton's. "Peyton came
to practice this spring," Cutcliffe said, "and he said he felt
like he was having an out-of-body experience." Poster boy: Rex
Grossman will be the subject of a Heisman Trophy campaign. He was
the runner-up last year as a sophomore.


   Grossman said the Heisman hoopla "didn't affect me last year,
and I don't think it'll affect me this year."


   But he said promotional material such as posters and CD-ROMs can
be "embarrassing." "It gets a little fake when you have
billboards and a campaign," he said. "It gets away from football.
You're a focal point, and people are looking at you, but it's a
team game, and you depend on your team 1,000 times more than that
billboard to get you the Heisman."


   Hurricane force: A change in the rules and a fluke in the
calendar this season allows colleges to play 12 regular-season
games. Of all the 12th games added to the schedule, Florida's might
be the most daunting: Miami on Sept. 7 after the Gators open up
with Alabama-Birmingham.


   "What do you want me to say?" first-year Florida coach Ron
Zook said with a note of exasperation. "The people of Miami and
the people of the University of Florida wanted us to have it for a
long time, but it wasn't going to happen with the 11-game format."


   Although he said the Gators will be excited to play the
Hurricanes, "I don't want to talk about that game," Zook said.
"If you look down the road too far, you get your feet cut out from
under you."


   Karen Rosen writes for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. E-mail:
krosen(at)ajc.com


   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers


   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service



NYT-07-31-02 2130EDT




 NYT20020731.0077 
 2002-07-31 13:46 

A4345 &Cx1f; ttd-z
r d BC-PRODUCEBIN-SFCHRON     07-31 0408


 BC-PRODUCEBIN-SF 

MUST CREDIT THE SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE

 CHRON  EDITORS NOTE: Each week, The Chronicle offers readers a look at
the more unusual fruits, vegetables and herbs of each season and
how to use them. 
 
 THE PRODUCE BIN: Bitter melon  
   
 BY KAROLA SAEKEL 
c. 2002 The San Francisco Chronicle  


SAN FRANCISCO -- A staple of Chinese and Indian cooking, these
gourds (botanically, Momordica charantia) with skin like toads
grow on climbing vines that can reach 12 feet. The Chinese and
Indian varieties differ little in taste. Though they resemble
squashes, they are natives to Asia, rather than the Americas, but
are now cultivated in many regions of the world that boast
moderate to warm climates. Hmong farmers grow them in
California's Central Valley, and Mexico has a substantial crop.


   SEASON Bitter melons can be found in Asian and specialty
produce markets primarily from spring through late fall. Right
now, some particularly nice ones are in Bay Area farmers'
markets.


   HOW TO SELECT As the gourd ripens, its color changes from
near white-pale green to vivid green, often flecked with yellow,
and eventually bright orange. When young, the flavor is
relatively mild, with a fresh, sour note. As it ripens, it gets
progressively more bitter due to the quinine it contains.


   PRICE Bitter melon was selling for 79 cents to $1.99 a pound
last week.


   USES Bitter melons are used in many Asian cuisines, most
prominently Indian, Chinese and Vietnamese. Generally, they are
halved lengthwise, the seeds and fibrous pulp removed and the
flesh sliced into crescents. They are frequently blanched or
salted and left to macerate for up to an hour, then rinsed and
patted dry to tame the bitterness.


   Chinese hot-and-sour soup made with egg white and crabmeat
often includes bitter melon. It also appears in stir-frys,
especially those based on pork. Black bean sauce is a favorite
seasoning. When pickled, bitter melon makes a savory condiment.


   In Vietnam, bitter melon halves are stuffed with meat
mixtures, such as ground pork with black mushrooms and cellophane
noodles, then braised. Colin Spencer's "Vegetable Book" details
an intriguing Indian chapati in which bitter melon, seeds left
intact, is sliced, parboiled, then mixed with lightly fried
garlic and Indian spices, flour and yogurt. The mixture is fried
like a thick pancake and served, sliced, with rice, naan and
other curries.



NYT-07-31-02 1346EDT  





 NYT20020731.0078 
 2002-07-31 13:47 

A4346 &Cx1f; ttd-z
r d BC-JULIACHILD-SFCHRON       07-31 1501


 BC-JULIACHILD-SF 

MUST CREDIT THE SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE 

  Grande dame of cooking still going strong at 90: Julia Child 
 celebrates in San Francisco 
      
 BY KAROLA SAEKEL 
c. 2002 The San Francisco Chronicle  


 
SAN FRANCISCO -- How does it feel to turn 90 and have attained
the status of an icon, a living legend?


   "It feels just like it felt before," Julia Child says with
the throaty laugh familiar to millions who cut their culinary
teeth on her "French Chef" television series. The show, along
with her seminal book, "Mastering the Art of French Cooking"
(1961), revolutionized the way America cooks and eats.


   While making light of the difference a day -- or another
decade -- makes, Child intends to enjoy her birthday thoroughly.
First, there will be all the public observances, including a
sold-out dinner Thursday at San Francisco's tony Fifth Floor
restaurant, which -- like dinners that night at 19 other venues
across the country -- will benefit the scholarship fund of the
International Association of Culinary Professionals (which Child
co-founded).


   Friday to Sunday, the action moves to Napa, with both
members-only and public events at COPIA: The American Center for
Wine, Food and the Arts, of which she is an honorary board
member.


   Aug. 15, her actual birthday, will see her in Maine at an
annual gathering of nieces, nephews, their offspring and friends,
who for many years have rolled a joined birthday celebration for
several members of the group into a jolly reunion.


   The schedule Child and her assistant of 14 years, former
pastry chef Stephanie Hersh, have laid out is not exactly a
senior-citizen routine, even though Child has always been candid
about her age and realistic in assessing her own capabilities.


   When the Pasadena native moved back to California from her
long-time home in the Boston area last year, she also made the
move from a condominium she and her late husband, Paul, had
purchased many years ago to a progressive retirement home. She is
in the most active of the four levels available, but should the
need arise, she can move on to assisted living facilities within
the same complex.


   "Julia," explains Hersh, "made these retirement plans many
years ago. She thinks it's selfish for people not to make
arrangements for their old age in good time."


   But so far, age has been kind to the ebullient Child. In a
phone interview a couple of weeks ago, she reported with glee
that surgery early this month to remove a small cyst on her
spinal cord had "miraculously" cleared up recent problems in
walking: "Turned out there is nothing wrong with my legs at
all."


   So she can once again go shopping, buying whatever seems best
on any given day. Though she had a "nice" kitchen installed in
her new home, Child said it's like a ship's galley -- a far cry
from the huge, three-pantry kitchen Paul Child designed for their
house in Cambridge. That may well be the best-known kitchen in
America, since it became the site of the "French Chef"
television programs, which started airing in 1962.


   "Back there, we always ate in the kitchen," Child
reminisced, "I cannot do that here." That means her
entertaining has been curtailed, even though she still has an
active social life with the many friends the Childs made during
22 winters spent in Santa Barbara.


   She will have reunions of sorts with her famous kitchen in
the next few weeks. One of its Peg-Board walls was dismantled and
reinstalled at COPIA; the rest went to Washington, D.C., and the
Behring Center of the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum
of American History. (all CQ) Hersh recalls the museum staff's
approach to preserving the famous kitchen as awesome: They
cataloged and photographed everything, from stove to windows,
blinds to drawer contents. As reinstalled in Washington, the
kitchen should be as we all remember it from countless TV shows,
"right down to the toothpicks."


   Child will go to the capital for the debut of the exhibit
right after the Maine birthday bash. To see her kitchen -- and by
extension, herself -- enshrined in the Smithsonian, she said,
"will be an odd feeling" and no doubt bring back memories.


   But Child is not one to get maudlin about the past, though
she does want to keep it alive. She's already got her next
project picked out: A memoir of her and Paul's life in the
diplomatic service with his professional photographs and some of
her collected recipes.


   It will undoubtedly retell how the seeds of her culinary
career were sown: Fresh off the boat on their way to Paris and
Paul Child's new posting (they had met in Sri Lanka during World
War II), they stopped for lunch in Rouen. That lunch lit a spark
that made Julia decide to take classes at the Cordon Bleu, which
in turn led to her friendship and collaboration with Simone Beck
and Louisette Bertholle, co-authors of "Mastering the Art of
French Cooking," and, ultimately, to America's culinary
revolution.


   For information on COPIA events open to the public, sign on to
www.copia.org or call (707) 259-1600.


How to feed a legend


So what do you prepare when asked to cook a birthday dinner
for America's most famous culinary personality?


   Some of the country's top chefs will answer that question
Thursday at the 20 dinners nationwide that will celebrate Julia
Child's approaching 90th birthday. The question may be most acute
for three San Francisco chefs preparing the long sold-out dinner
at Fifth Floor restaurant, because the honoree herself plans to
be there.


   They are the host restaurant's executive chef, Laurent Gras;
his counterpart at Masa's, Ron Siegel, and Masa pastry chef Keith
Jeanminette.


   The three put their heads together, thumbed through
"Mastering the Art of French Cooking" and "In Julia's
Kitchen," and selected what seemed like the honoree's favorites,
though with a few twists of their own. "It seems she loves
soups," said Siegel, "so I am picking up on her vichyssoise.
But since it's the middle of summer, I am adding fresh corn to
it" -- plus a dollop of caviar for good measure.


   In the same vein, Gras is tweaking her salade nicoise, and
Jeanminette is adapting her mousse au chocolat to become a
spectacular six-layer pecan marjolaine. He could hardly go wrong.
When Child was asked some years back what she would order for her
last meal, she ended the list with "something chocolate for
dessert."


   Here is the San Francisco chefs' menu:


Corn vichyssoise with caviar


   Julia's composed near-nicoise salad


   Atlantic halibut with flavored butters


   Sonoma duck breast a la Julia Child with crispy pancetta and
sweet summer onions and naturally enriched duck sauce


   Six-layer pecan marjolaine with Julia's coffee chocolate
mousse, cocoa meringue, pecan crust and citrus sorbet

list>   

Words of wisdom


   Julia Child doesn't have much use for fads and trends -- never
has. She never subscribed to cuisine minceur, cholesterol-free
cooking, meat-free meal plans, organic food or any of the other
politically correct trends of different times -- and that includes
restricted diets, in spades.


   However, an active woman all her life, she is aware of the
need to keep ones weight and fitness in mind. Here are her
personal rules for achieving these goals:



   Take small helpings


   No seconds


   No snacking


   Eat a little bit of everything


   Drink modest amounts of good wine.



Why we love Julia


   BY KIM SEVERSON
   c. 2002 The San Francisco Chronicle


   It's easy to imagine what Bay Area chefs like Alice Waters or
Michael Mina might have to say about Julia Child on her 90th
birthday. But what about Bay Area notables who like to cook but
are not connected to a professional kitchen?


   Susie Tompkins Buell, socialite and political activist who
co-founded the Esprit de Corps fashion company: "When I think of
Julia Child I think of the television episode where she's showing
you how to make a turkey dinner and the turkey fell on the floor.
It's live and she leans over and picks it up and says, `What the
guests don't see won't hurt them.' You have to be playful and
confident about cooking. She cooks that way, and I cook that
way."


   Denise Hale, social icon and Liza Minnelli's stepmother:
"Julia Child gave to all women one beautiful present: Watching
her series you found out you don't have to be perfect."


   Francis Ford Coppola, film director: "I think she's a
fascinating woman, and I enjoy very much watching her shows with
Jacques Pepin."


   Harry Denton, San Francisco nightclub owner: "My favorite
thing about her is her straightforward honesty and that her
favorite food is butter. I love butter, too."


   Michael Chabon, author of Pulitzer Prize winner "The Amazing
Adventures of Kavalier & Clay": "All I think of when I think of
her now is Dan Akroyd pretending to be her (on Saturday Night
Live) and chopping his fingers off and bleeding all over."



NYT-07-31-02 1347EDT  





 NYT20020731.0049 
 2002-07-31 11:11 

Q2420 &Cx1f; tab-z
r f BC-CHEFS-SAVINGFISH-NNS       07-31 1259


 BC-CHEFS-SAVINGFISH-NNS 

RESPONSIBLE SEAFOOD SALES ARE THE CATCH OF THE DAY 

ATTENTION EDITORS: This article from the NEWHOUSE NEWS SERVICE
report of TUESDAY, JULY 30, 2002, is available as a "separate
buy." For information about purchasing the article, contact DEBRA
WEYDERT of The New York Times Syndicate at 732-390-4480; fax,
732-390-4697; e-mail, weyded(at)nytimes.com 
Optional trim at 950 words 
By MICHELLE COLE 
c.2002 Newhouse News Service



   (UNDATED) Chefs and seafood retailers are wading into one of the
hottest natural resource issues of the day: fisheries management.


   It's no longer unusual for chefs to refuse to serve a species
they think to be at risk of extinction or for a retailer to promote
seafoods that are abundant and part of a healthy marine ecosystem.


   Most say they're driven by the desire to do right by the
environment. Some also say they must listen to their customers'
concerns or risk a consumer backlash.


   The nationwide boycott of Chilean seabass is a potent example of
the new activism.


   "I have made it a policy of mine never to serve Chilean
seabass," said Billy Hahn, executive chef at Jake's Famous
Crawfish, a Portland, Ore., landmark since 1892. "I refuse to sell
it."


   Chilean seabass, also known as Patagonian toothfish, came into
vogue in the 1990s in U.S. restaurants and fish markets. With
rising demand for the firm, oil-rich fish came pirate fishing
fleets eager to cash in on its popularity -- even if it meant
skirting catch limits and environmental regulations.


   Contrary to what some restaurants and retailers tell their
customers, the U.S. government does not consider the Chilean
seabass to be endangered. But in some areas, the seabass are being
overfished.


   That is potentially a problem because Chilean seabass are a
long-lived species -- living as long as 50 years -- and reproduce
slowly, said Susan Buchanan, a spokeswoman for the federal
government's National Marine Fisheries Service.


   The NMFS estimates that in 2000, more than 16,000 tons of
Chilean seabass were legally caught from an internationally
regulated harvest area in the Antarctic Ocean. But more than 32,000
tons may have been taken illegally from those same waters, the
fisheries service said.


   Impatient with regulators, the National Environmental Trust
began a boycott campaign in February called "Take a Pass on
Chilean Seabass." The Washington-based conservation group says
more than 530 restaurants have signed on.


   A number of restaurants not officially part of the National
Environmental Trust boycott also have stopped serving Chilean
seabass. And it's not just the white tablecloth crowd.


   Red Lobster, with 660 restaurants in the United States and
Canada, dropped Chilean seabass from the menu in the past year
because of "sustainability" concerns, said Wendy Spirduso,
communications director for the Orlando, Fla.-based chain.


   Some retailers also have pulled Chilean seabass.


   "We've discontinued selling swordfish, Chilean seabass, orange
roughy and marlin," said Mark Cockcroft, national seafood buyer
for Wild Oats Markets, a chain of 103 stores. "We are also taking
a real hard look currently at almost all species of shark, though
we haven't made a formal statement about that."


   Whole Foods Markets, with 133 stores nationwide, also does not
sell Chilean seabass.


   All of this comes at a time when Americans are consuming more
seafood: 15 to 16 pounds per person each year, compared with 10.3
pounds per person in 1960 and 12.5 pounds in 1980, according to the
National Fisheries Institute, an industry association.


   At the same time, about half the world's fisheries are being
fished to capacity.


   The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
reports that 47 percent to 50 percent of stocks are "fully
exploited," meaning that catches have either reached or are close
to maximum limits. Another 15 percent to 18 percent are
"overexploited," and 9 percent to 10 percent have been "depleted
or are recovering from depletion."


   The seafood industry is less than thrilled about this surge of
interest in ocean ecosystems from people who are not scientists.


   Fisheries management is best left to the experts, said Thor
Lassen, president of Ocean Trust, a research and conservation
foundation partly financed by the fishing industry. "It involves
very complicated choices that have to do with the biology of
species, their life cycles, how they respond to various changes in
the oceans, etc."


   When there's a boycott, Lassen said, "it's not
environmentalists or chefs making the sacrifice, it's coastal
communities."


   Rod Moore, executive director of the West Coast Seafood
Processors Association, suggests that activists with an agenda are
manipulating chefs and retailers.


   The conservation groups providing information to chefs and
retailers and lists of environmentally appropriate seafoods to
consumers are the same groups working to affect fisheries
management on the political and regulatory level, Moore said.


   That's simply good strategy, said James Leape, deputy director
of the conservation program for the David and Lucile Packard
Foundation in Los Altos, Calif.


   In 2000 and 2001, the Packard Foundation awarded $26 million in
marine fisheries conservation grants. They included support for
marine reserves and money for fisheries management reform. More
than $7 million was given to projects aimed at educating the
general public.


   "One of the principal concerns of the Packard Foundation is the
preservation of natural resources, particularly in the oceans, and
one of the greatest threats is overfishing," Leape said. "We have
seen that raising consumer awareness and concern among restaurants
and retailers about a particular fishery can really make a
difference."

"
   (OPTIONAL TRIM FOLLOWS) 


   The Monterey Bay Aquarium's Web site rates different species of
fish for overfishing, habitat damage and other factors. The
California aquarium also created "Seafood Watch" wallet cards
designed to take to restaurants. More than 600,000 of the cards and
seafood guides have been distributed since 2000, said Jennifer
Dianto, Seafood Watch program manager at the aquarium.


   Chefs and retailers around the country know they must be
prepared to deal with customers who arrive with the aquarium's
seafood card in hand. But in a business in which 12-hour shifts are
the norm, some chefs worry about their lack of time to stay
informed about complicated, rapidly changing fisheries management
issues.


   Some working chefs say they routinely review conservation group
Web sites, government reports and industry sources.


   "For me, it's very difficult to be certain that the information
which is given to me is real," said Eric Ripert, chef at Le
Bernardin, a four-star seafood restaurant in Manhattan. "I don't
know. I don't have enough information to know, for example, if
Chilean seabass is really disappearing or if it's political
pressure."


   Despite being uncertain of its status, Ripert pulled Chilean
seabass. Le Bernardin's menu also informs diners that the
restaurant will not serve swordfish to support efforts "to recover
the species."


   "I don't wish to be a spokesman for any campaign," Ripert
said. "I do it as somebody who has a conscience and is caring."


   JL END COLE


   (Michelle Cole is a staff writer for The Oregonian of Portland,
Ore. She can be contacted at michellecole(at)news.oregonian.com.)



NYT-07-31-02 1111EDT




 NYT20020731.0050 
 2002-07-31 11:12 

A4250 &Cx1f; tab-z
r a BC-PSYCHOLOGISTS-DRUGS-S     07-31 0945


 BC-PSYCHOLOGISTS-DRUGS-SCIAM-ART-NYTSF 

PRESCRIPTION PRIVILEGES MAKE SOME PSYCHOLOGISTS ANXIOUS 


  (FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE)   (Includes color image of a prescription bottle with pills.)  
 (ATTENTION EDITORS: This article is for use by clients of The New
York Times Syndicate's SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN NEWS SERVICE. For
information about becoming a client of this service, contact the
New York Times Syndicate sales representatives listed at the end of
the text.)  
BY CHRISTINE SOARES  
 c.2002 Scientific American  
 
    Intending to ease consumer access to mental health care, New
Mexico legislators in March passed a law allowing psychologists to
prescribe psychotropic medications, such as antidepressants.
 
    The state's action, the first in the nation, has the blessing of
the American Psychological Association (APA), which considers
prescriptive authority a logical extension of psychologists' role
as health-care providers. But powerful groups, including the
American Medical Association, oppose the idea and have a surprising
source of support: psychologists themselves, some of whom call it a
radical experiment and fear that the most likely victim will be the
science of psychology.
 
    "I am concerned that nonmedically trained people as legitimate
prescribers of drugs will not be accepted by the American public,"
says psychologist Gerald C. Davison of the University of Southern
California.
 
    The APA has spent more than $1 million to help state
psychological associations develop and lobby for such prescription
privileges -- or "RxP" -- legislation. A total of 31 state
psychology associations have task forces dedicated to developing
and lobbying for prescription-privileges legislation.
 
    The version endorsed by the APA would license doctoral-level
psychologists to independently prescribe psychotropic drugs after
completing 300 hours of classroom instruction in neuroscience,
physiology and pharmacology, followed by four months' supervised
treatment of 100 patients.
 
    Critics say that is not nearly enough compared with other
prescribers, such as M.D. psychiatrists or nurse practitioners who
have at least six years' medical education and clinical experience.
 
    Neither Davison nor most other RxP opponents doubt the efficacy
of medications. Their greatest objection is to the notion of
turning psychology into a prescribing profession.
 
    In a field that has struggled long and hard to prove that mind,
mood and behavior can be studied empirically, the past decade,
Davison says, has seen "exciting developments" that demonstrate
the validity of various psychotherapeutic interventions and the
psychosocial-behavioral models on which they are based.
 
    "The timing is peculiar to abandon psychological science or to
convert it to a medical science," explains Elaine M. Heiby of the
University of Hawaii, who chairs a committee of the 1,000-member
American Association of Applied and Preventive Psychology that is
concerned about the medicalization of psychology.
 
    "Making sure that practicing psychologists are giving patients
interventions based on the best available psychological science
should be the APA's priority," argues Emory University's Scott
Lilienfeld, president of the Society for a Science of Clinical
Psychology (SSCP).
 
    More than any philosophical betrayal of psychology, RxP
opponents fear that the movement will undermine the science they
love. They believe that if prescriptive authority becomes the norm,
biomedical requirements will inevitably seep into the psychology
curriculum, at the expense of traditional psychological science and
methodology.
 
    Lilienfeld feels that many clinical psychologists already
receive inadequate training in fundamentals such as research design
and evaluation.
 
    RxP opponents charge the APA with pushing its
prescription-privileges agenda without adequately assessing support
for it in the field. The 300-member SSCP is the only group within
the APA to have taken a formal stance against prescription
privileges.
 
    The APA has scheduled 30 minutes at its meeting in August for an
RxP debate, but its leadership believes it already has an accurate
sense of support for its RxP policy.
 
    "Except for this small vocal minority, we have just not gotten
a lot of groundswell against this from members," says APA
president Philip G. Zimbardo of Stanford University.
 
    With prescription privileges now a reality in one state, some
RxP opponents concede that it may be too late.
 
    This year four states besides New Mexico -- Georgia, Hawaii,
Illinois and Tennessee -- have pending legislation for psychologist
prescription privileges. Over the past decade, 14 state
legislatures have considered such laws.
 
    Between 1991 and 1997, a U.S. Department of Defense
psychopharmacology demonstration project involving two to four
years' training produced 10 military psychologists who can write
prescriptions.

 
    For more information on the topics covered in the Scientific
American News Service, visit www.sciam.com.
 (Distributed by New York Times Special Features)  



   EDITOR: Visit The New York Times Syndicate Web site at
http://www.nytimes.com/syndicate for more information on SCIENTIFIC
AMERICAN NEWS SERVICE and other features.


   NONSUBSCRIBERS: To subscribe to SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN NEWS
SERVICE, please contact the following New York Times Syndicate
sales representative:


   -- NORTH AMERICA: Ana Pena at 212-499-3333.


   -- INTERNATIONAL: Claire Saint-Andre, in Paris, 33-1-53-05-76-55
or saint-andre (at) fr.inter.net.


   -- LATIN AMERICA: Isabel Amorim Sicherle, in Sao Paulo,
55-11-30233331 or sicheia (at) nytimes.com.



NYT-07-31-02 1112EDT 


 NYT20020731.0191 
 2002-07-31 18:45 

A4537 &Cx1f; tad-z
u a BC-ATOMIC-BOMB-0801-COX       07-31 1808


 BC-ATOMIC-BOMB-0801-COX 
  
 A mission to end a war  
 By DENISE GAMINO  
   Cox News Service  



   AUSTIN, Texas -- Tom Karnes was dialing for destiny, but not
everyone wanted to cooperate.


   Karnes sat in his wood-paneled office in a Quonset hut in the
middle of the Great Salt Lake Desert, a black telephone to his ear.
He was tracking down men to join a group so secret he couldn't
admit it existed.


   On his metal desk were names of military men being ordered into
the organization. He was calling bases all over the United States
to line up their transfer to the desert outside Salt Lake City.


   "Where is the authority?" asked one officer who didn't want to
lose a valuable man under his command.


   "Who says this?" another commanding officer asked Karnes.


   Each time, Karnes said what he had to: "Call Air Force
headquarters if you don't believe me."


   If they continued to resist, he pulled out a secret code for
their bosses.


   "This is a Silverplate request," he said.


   Silverplate: code word for the historic mission that would end
World War II.


   Almost 1,800 men were assembled n late 1944 to join the
top-secret unit called the 509th Composite Group. Col. Paul
Tibbets, the pilot who would drop the world's first atomic bomb
over Hiroshima, Japan, was commander of the unit and chose the men.
And the first person he chose to join him was Karnes, though he
couldn't reveal the mission to Karnes. Karnes, 87, is a retired
history professor who lives in suburban Austin with his wife,
Virginia, who also worked for the 509th as a civilian bookkeeper
for six months.


   Karnes was Tibbets' adjutant, the man in charge of writing the
orders and cajoling the transfer to the unit of servicemen
proficient in bombing, mechanics, ordnance, engineering and
communications. Tibbets picked the names, and Karnes made it
happen.


   Tibbets hated paperwork. Karnes thought it was a breeze.


   They were a wartime match that changed the world.


   Japan surrendered within days of the detonation of the atomic
bombs that killed 140,000 people in Hiroshima on Aug. 6, 1945, and
70,000 in Nagasaki three days later.


   The story of the 509th is a tale of an elite outfit that lived
in a bubble of secrecy and endured the taunts of other war-weary
U.S. units that resented sharing a small Pacific island with the
509th, which appeared exempt from combat. Tinian Island was the
staging area where the 509th moved after its creation in the
desert.


   Karnes has never spoken publicly about his role as Tibbets'
right-hand administrative aide. He never even told his story to
students in his 40 years of teaching college.


   War is hell, he says, and when it was over, he wanted to come
home and rejoin his young family and not dwell on it. He earned a
doctorate in history from Stanford University and taught Latin
American history at Tulane University and Arizona State University.


   Next week marks the 57th anniversary of the atomic bombings. As
always, Karnes' mind will drift to memories of his good friend
Tibbets, 87, who lives in Columbus, Ohio.


   Each year on Aug. 6, "I always think of Paul Tibbets and how he
handled unbelievable responsibility," Karnes said.


   Karnes met Tibbets when the 29-year-old bomber pilot walked into
Karnes' office at Wendover Army Air Field on the Utah-Nevada
border. Karnes was the personnel and classification officer. He was
only a captain, but he had been left in charge at Wendover the day
Tibbets surprised them by landing a B-29, a new plane no one at
Wendover had seen.


   Tibbets had just been ordered to organize a combat force to drop
a bomb being developed by a secret enterprise known as the
Manhattan Project. He was searching for a remote installation to
train bomber crews and support units in total secrecy.


   Tibbets instantly liked the isolation and vast size of Wendover
and the surrounding Bonneville Salt Flats. And he immediately liked
Karnes, who showed him around the base.


   In Karnes, Tibbets found a kindred spirit -- and a handball
partner. Both were smart, disciplined, quiet men who thrived on
efficiency, perfection and self-reliance. Each had skills the other
admired. Tibbets was a decorated, top-gun pilot, but Karnes could
wrangle the military rule book as well as Tibbets could fly.


   "I don't recall ever having to tell Tom to do anything,"
Tibbets said in an e-mail this week. "He was so knowledgeable he
just got things done, allowing me to concentrate on other matters.
I was very lucky to have Tom."


   Tibbets quickly returned to Wendover after that first visit to
set up his headquarters. His first order appointed Karnes adjutant
for the 509th.


   Almost overnight, Wendover became a high-security base filled
with off-limit areas covered in barbed wire. No one was allowed to
talk about what they saw or heard, even though most of the 509th
had no idea why they were there, except that 15 B-29s were being
modified to carry a heavy load.


   Karnes and his staff read outgoing mail to make sure no secrets
slipped out. Karnes hated to pry, and skimmed over personal
portions of the letters. Phone calls were monitored. An undercover
force of Manhattan Project security agents infiltrated the base and
bars in the little town of Wendover (population 103) to spy on
airmen.


   Karnes knew the 509th was preparing for a special bombing
mission, but he had no idea what kind of bombs were involved.


   "I had a friend, the finance officer. He said that they had
split the atom and that we were going to drop an atomic bomb,"
Karnes said. "I said, `No."'


   A noncommittal "mmm-mm," was the most Karnes could ever get
out of Tibbets on matters of the bomb. By spring, the 509th
prepared to move to Tinian Island, near Guam and Saipan. That would
put the B-29s about 1,500 miles from Japan -- a 13-hour round-trip
flight. Karnes was deluged with orders for inoculations, equipment,
transfers and promotions.


   Karnes arrived on Tinian on May 18, 1945, as part of an advance
team that flew in the five C-54 transport planes of the 509th. On
May 29, 1,200 men arrived on the troopship Cape Victory after a
five-week trip from Seattle.


   Tinian Island had been captured from Japan, and the Seabees, the
construction arm of the Navy, had built two large airfields. The
509th took North Field and stayed in relative isolation from other
B-29 units on the island.


   Karnes handed out bunk assignments, choosing the mess officer,
Chuck Perry, to share his tent. Karnes had his own Jeep, and went
to the beach and to evening movies shown by other units as often as
he could. But at the movies, he had to remove the distributor cap
on his Jeep so the vehicle wouldn't be stolen, perhaps by jealous
airmen who resented the 509th.


   Not until the day before Tibbets and his crew flew to Hiroshima
was the 509th told what was happening. The word spread: "This is
it. This is the big mission."


   Karnes and hundreds of other men from the 509th stood along the
flight line as Tibbets and the Enola Gay took off at 2:45 a.m. on
Aug. 6, a warm, tropical night. Three B-29s had gone ahead to check
the weather at Hiroshima and two other possible bomb sites. Two
other B-29s left in two-minute intervals after Tibbets so their
crews could take photos and drop devices to measure radiation and
other effects of the bomb.


   Tibbets got the word only an hour from Hiroshima that the city's
weather was clear. As they approached, Tibbets braced for Japanese
anti-aircraft fire. None came. Early in the flight, the crew had
inserted a plug of uranium into the 9,000-pound bomb, nicknamed
"Little Boy."


   Ninety seconds from the bomb drop, Tibbets put the plane on
auto-pilot. The crew slipped on dark glasses to prepare for the
blinding flash of the bomb. At 8:15 a.m. Hiroshima time, the
pneumatic bomb-bay doors opened and "Little Boy," equivalent to
20,000 tons of TNT, fell out.


   Tibbets and his crew had exactly 43 seconds to get away before
the bomb exploded. The Enola Gay climbed, and Tibbets fought to
turn the plane in the air-bending, 155-degree the crews had been
practicing off Tinian for months. He pushed off the dark glasses
because he couldn't see to fly.


   When the bomb exploded as planned 1,890 feet over Hiroshima,
Tibbets' mouth tingled, and


   he tasted the lead fillings in his teeth.


   A minute later, the shock wave hit. The crew was horrified by
the purple mushroom cloud that climbed to 10 miles and looked as if
it would engulf the Enola Gay. More shocking was the city of
Hiroshima, which was on fire and bubbling like tar.


   "We were all appalled," the pilot said in his book "The
Tibbets Story."


   Back on Tinian, Karnes had gone to bed. But he didn't sleep
long. Someone woke him to say Gen. Hap Arnold, chief of the Army
Air Forcesin Washington, was on the phone and asking for him.
Arnold told Karnes, "Tibbets is going to be landing in three to
four hours, and I want to give him the Distinguished Service Cross,
and it is your job to write up the explanation."


   "I had no idea how you wrote up an award. I'd never written up
any award," Karnes said. "So I got all of my sergeants out, and
they're all digging through their (books.)"


   When an unsuspecting Tibbets descended from the Enola Gay on
Tinian, he barely managed to palm his pipe as Gen. Carl Spaatz,
commander of the Strategic Air Forces, stepped forward to pin the
medal on his bomb flight coveralls.


   Karnes, like the hundreds of others gathered along the flight
line, was jubilant. He knew the war would soon be over and he would
be heading home. A yearof secrecy and hard work wasover.


   Three days later, another B-29 from the 509th bombed Nagasaki.
Five days later, Japan surrendered and World War II was over.


   Today, Karnes is frustrated that some of his fellow historians,
the ones he calls "revisionists," question the wisdom and
morality of the bombings. What matters, he believes, is that his
generation thought the bomb should be dropped.


   "We were not bloodthirsty guys," he said. "We were convinced
then, and I still am, that we ended the war a year or two earlier.
And what the casualties would have been, who knows -- but heavy."


   "On Tinian, and probably elsewhere, the Seabees were building
enormous hospitals while we were there," he said. "Those
hospitals were not for us. They were for (an expected invasion of
Japan). And then the casualties were going to be terrible."


   Karnes carries the image of hundreds of hospital beds in his
mind. In his heart, he holds the unshakable conviction that the
mission he helped organize saved America from disaster.


   Denise Gamino writes for the Austin (Texas) American-Statesman.
E-mail: dgamino(at)statesman.com


   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers


   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
   



NYT-07-31-02 1845EDT 






Pacific First Financial Corp. said shareholders approved its acquisition by Royal Trustco Ltd. of Toronto for $27 a share, or $212 million.  

The thrift holding company said it expects to obtain regulatory approval and complete the transaction by year-end.  







The White House said President Bush has approved duty-free treatment for imports of certain types of watches that aren't produced in "significant quantities" in the U.S., the Virgin Islands and other U.S. possessions.  

The action came in response to a petition filed by Timex Inc. for changes in the U.S. Generalized System of Preferences for imports from developing nations. Previously, watch imports were denied such duty-free treatment.  

Timex had requested duty-free treatment for many types of watches, covered by 58 different U.S. tariff classifications. The White House said Mr. Bush decided to grant duty-free status for 18 categories, but turned down such treatment for other types of watches "because of the potential for material injury to watch producers located in the U.S. and the Virgin Islands."  

Timex is a major U.S. producer and seller of watches, including low-priced battery-operated watches assembled in the Philippines and other developing nations covered by the U.S. tariff preferences.  

U.S. trade officials said the Philippines and Thailand would be the main beneficiaries of the president's action.  

Imports of the types of watches that now will be eligible for duty-free treatment totaled about $37.3 million in 1988, a relatively small share of the $1.5 billion in U.S. watch imports that year, according to an aide to U.S. Trade Representative Carla Hills.  







Magna International Inc. 's chief financial officer, James McAlpine, resigned and its chairman, Frank Stronach, is stepping in to help turn the automotive-parts manufacturer around, the company said.  

Mr. Stronach will direct an effort to reduce overhead and curb capital spending "until a more satisfactory level of profit is achieved and maintained," Magna said.  

Stephen Akerfeldt, currently vice president finance, will succeed Mr. McAlpine.  

An ambitious expansion has left Magna with excess capacity and a heavy debt load as the automotive industry enters a downturn. The company has reported declines in operating profit in each of the past three years, despite steady sales growth.  

Magna recently cut its quarterly dividend in half and the company's Class A shares are wallowing far below their 52-week high of 16.125 Canadian dollars (US$13.73). On the Toronto Stock Exchange yesterday, Magna shares closed up 37.5 Canadian cents to C$9.625.  

Mr. Stronach, founder and controlling shareholder of Magna, resigned as chief executive officer last year to seek, unsuccessfully, a seat in Canada's Parliament.  

Analysts said Mr. Stronach wants to resume a more influential role in running the company. They expect him to cut costs throughout the organization.  

The company said Mr. Stronach will personally direct the restructuring, assisted by Manfred Gingl, president and chief executive. Neither they nor Mr. McAlpine could be reached for comment.  

Magna said Mr. McAlpine resigned to pursue a consulting career, with Magna as one of his clients.  







Italian chemical giant Montedison S.p. A., through its Montedison Acquisition N.V. indirect unit, began its $37-a-share tender offer for all the common shares outstanding of Erbamont N.V., a maker of pharmaceuticals incorporated in the Netherlands.  

The offer, advertised in today's editions of The Wall Street Journal, is scheduled to expire at the end of November.  

Montedison currently owns about 72% of Erbamont's common shares outstanding.  

The offer is being launched pursuant to a previously announced agreement between the companies.  







GOODY PRODUCTS Inc. cut its quarterly dividend to five cents a share from 11.5 cents a share. The reduced dividend is payable Jan. 2 to stock of record Dec. 15. The Kearny, N.J.-based maker of hair accessories and other cosmetic products said it cut the dividend due to its third-quarter loss of $992,000, or 15 cents a share. In the year-ago quarter, the company reported net income of $1.9 million, or 29 cents a share. The company also adopted an anti-takeover plan.  







Integra-A Hotel & Restaurant Co. said its planned rights offering to raise about $9 million was declared effective and the company will begin mailing materials to shareholders at the end of this week.  

Under the offer, shareholders will receive one right for each 105 common shares owned. Each right entitles the shareholder to buy $100 face amount of 13.5% bonds due 1993 and warrants to buy 23.5 common shares at 30 cents a share. The rights, which expire Nov. 21, can be exercised for $100 each.  

Integra, which owns and operates hotels, said that Hallwood Group Inc. has agreed to exercise any rights that aren't exercised by other shareholders. Hallwood, a Cleveland merchant bank, owns about 11% of Integra.  







ROGERS COMMUNICATIONS Inc. said it plans to raise 175 million to 180 million Canadian dollars (US$148.9 million to $153.3 million) through a private placement of perpetual preferred shares. Perpetual preferred shares aren't retractable by the holders, the company said. Rogers said the shares will be convertible into Class B shares, but that the company has the option to redeem the shares before a conversion takes place. A spokesman for the Toronto cable television and telecommunications concern said the coupon rate hasn't yet been fixed, but will probably be set at around 8%. He declined to discuss other terms of the issue.  







FALL BALLOT ISSUES set a record for off-year elections.  

Odd-year elections attract relatively few ballot issues. But the 1989 fall total of 80, while well below 1988 activity, shows "a steady ratcheting up in citizen referenda and initiatives," says Patrick McGuigan, editor of Family, Law and Democracy Report. He says the 10 citizen-sparked issues on state ballots this fall represent the most in any odd-year this decade. Ballot questions range from a Maine initiative on banning Cruise missiles to a referendum on increasing the North Dakota income tax.  

Ballot watchers say attention already is focused on the 1990 elections. In California, two petition drives for next year's election are "essentially finished," says David Schmidt, author of "Citizen Lawmakers." Mr. McGuigan cites three completed efforts in Oklahoma. Hot ballot topics are expected to be abortion, the environment and insurance reform.  

Taking a cue from California, more politicians will launch their campaigns by backing initiatives, says David Magleby of Brigham Young University.  

PHOTOGRAPH COLLECTING gains new stature as prices rise.  

Price records are being set at auctions this week. At Christie's, a folio of 21 prints from Alfred Stieglitz's "Equivalents" series sold for $396,000, a single-lot record. Other works also have been exceeding price estimates. In part, prices reflect development of a market structure based on such variables as the number of prints. This information used to be poorly documented and largely anecdotal, says Beth Gates-Warren of Sotheby's. "There is finally some sort of sense in the market," she says.  

Corporations and museums are among the serious buyers, giving greater market stability, says Robert Persky of the Photograph Collector. "When I see prints going into the hands of institutions, I know they aren't going to come back on the market." Most in demand: classic photographs by masters such as Stieglitz and Man Ray. But much contemporary work is also fetching "a great deal of money," says Miles Barth of the International Center of Photography.  

DIALING 900 brings callers a growing number of services.  

Currently a $300 million-a-year business, 900 telephone service is expected to hit $500 million next year and near $2 billion by 1992 as uses for the service continue to expand, says Joel Gross of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Inc. The service -- which costs the caller from 30 cents to $25 a minute -- currently is dominated by celebrity chatter, horoscopes and romance lines. But more serious applications are in the wings, and that is where the future growth is expected.  

"I'm starting to see more business transactions," says Andrea West of American Telephone & Telegraph Co., noting growing interest in use of 900 service for stock sales, software tutorials and even service contracts. Colleges, she says, are eyeing registration through 900 service. Charities test the waters, but they face legal barriers to electronic fund raising. "The thing that will really break this market right open is merchandising," Ms. West says.  

Much of the 800 service will "migrate to 900," predicts Jack Lawless, general manager of US Sprint's 900 product.  

FAMILY PETS are improving recovery rates of patients at Columbia Hospital, Milwaukee. Patients who receive canine or feline visitors are found to have lower blood pressure and improved appetite and be more receptive to therapy, says Mary Ann O'Loughlin, program coordinator.  

TIRED OF TRIMMING? Hammacher Schlemmer & Co. offers a fiber-optic Christmas tree that eliminates the need to string lights. The $6,500 tree is designed to send continuously changing colored light to dozens of fiber-end bunches.  

MEDICINE TRANSPLANT: Growth of Japanese trade and travel prompts Beth Israel Medical Center, New York, to set up a bilingual medical practice. Funded by a $1 million gift from Tokio Marine & Fire Insurance, the service will follow Japanese medical protocols, including emphasis on preventative medicine.  

DIAPER SERVICES make a comeback amid growing environmental concerns.  

Concerned about shrinking landfills and the safety of chemicals used in super-absorbent disposables, parents are returning to the cloth diaper. Tiny Tots Inc., Campbell, Calif., says business is up 35% in the past year. "We're gaining 1,200 new customers each week," says Jack Mogavero of General Health Care Corp., Piscataway, N.J. In Syracuse, N.Y., DyDee Service's new marketing push stresses environmental awareness. Among its new customers: day-care centers that previously spurned the service.  

The National Association of Diaper Services, Philadelphia, says that since January it has gotten more than 672 inquiries from people interested in starting diaper services. Elisa Hollis launched a diaper service last year because State College, Pa., where she lives, didn't have one. Diaper shortages this summer limited growth at Stork Diaper Services, Springfield, Mass., where business is up 25% in  

Also spurring the move to cloth: diaper covers with Velcro fasteners that eliminate the need for safety pins.  

BRIEFS: Only 57.6% of New Yorkers watch the local news, the lowest viewership in the country, says a new study by Impact Resources Inc., Columbus, Ohio. . . . FreudToy, a pillow bearing the likeness of Sigmund Freud, is marketed as a $24.95 tool for do-it-yourself analysis.  







William C. Walbrecher Jr., an executive at San Francisco-based 1st Nationwide Bank, was named president and chief executive officer of Citadel Holding Corp. and its principal operating unit, Fidelity Federal Bank.  

The appointment takes effect Nov. 13. He succeeds James A. Taylor, who stepped down as chairman, president and chief executive in March for health reasons. Edward L. Kane succeeded Mr. Taylor as chairman.  

Separately, Citadel posted a third-quarter net loss of $2.3 million, or 68 cents a share, versus net income of $5.3 million, or $1.61 a share, a year earlier.  

The latest results include some unusual write-downs, which had an after-tax impact of $4.9 million. Those included costs associated with the potential Valley Federal Savings and Loan Association acquisition, which was terminated on Sept. 27, 1989. In addition, operating results were hit by an increase in loan and real estate loss reserves.  

In American Stock Exchange composite trading, Citadel shares closed yesterday at $45.75, down 25 cents.  







Reed International PLC said that net income for the six months ended Oct. 1 slipped 5% to #89.7 million ($141.9 million), or 16 pence a share, from #94.8 million ($149.9 million), or 17.3 pence a share.  

The British paper, packaging and publishing concern, said profit from continuing lines fell 10% to #118 million from #130.6 million.  

While there were no one-time gains or losses in the latest period, there was a one-time gain of #18 million in the 1988 period. And while there was no profit this year from discontinued operations, last year they contributed #34 million, before tax.  

Pretax profit fell 3.7% to #128 million from #133 million and was below analysts' expectations of #130 million to #135 million, but shares rose 6 pence to 388 pence in early trading yesterday in London.  

Reed is paying an interim dividend of 4.6 pence, up 15% from 4 pence a year earlier.  

Sales fell 20% to #722 million.  

Earnings were hurt by disposal of operations in its restructuring, Reed said.  







N.V. DSM said net income in the third quarter jumped 63% as the company had substantially lower extraordinary charges to account for a restructuring program.  

The Dutch chemical group said net income gained to 235 million guilders ($113.2 million), or 6.70 guilders a share, from 144 million guilders, or 4.10 guilders a share, a year ago.  

The 32% state-owned DSM had eight million guilders of extraordinary charges in the latest quarter, mainly to reflect one-time losses in connection with the disposal of some operations. The charges were offset in part by a gain from the sale of the company's construction division.  

Last year, DSM had 71 million guilders of extraordinary charges for the restructuring program and other transactions.  

The earnings growth also was fueled by the company's ability to cut net financing spending by half to around 15 million guilders. Also, substantially lower Dutch corporate tax rates helped the company keep its tax outlay flat relative to earnings growth, the company added.  

Sales, however, were little changed at 2.46 billion guilders, compared with 2.42 billion guilders.  







Elco Industries Inc. said it expects net income in the year ending June 30, 1990, to fall below a recent analyst's estimate of $1.65 a share.  

The Rockford, Ill., maker of fasteners also said it expects to post sales in the current fiscal year that are "slightly above" fiscal 1989 sales of $155 million. The company said its industrial unit continues to face margin pressures and lower demand.  

In fiscal 1989, Elco earned $7.8 million, or $1.65 a share. The company's stock fell $1.125 to $13.625 in over-the-counter trading yesterday.  







Oshkosh Truck Corp., Oshkosh, Wis., estimated earnings for its fourth quarter ended Sept. 30 fell 50% to 75% below the year-earlier $4.5 million, or 51 cents a share.  

The truck maker said the significant drop in net income will result in lower earnings for the fiscal year. In fiscal 1988, the company earned $17.3 million, or $1.92 a share, on revenue of $352.9 million.  

Oshkosh Truck attributed the downturn in its earnings to higher start-up costs of its new chassis division, a softer motor-home market and higher administrative costs of compliance with government contractor regulations.  

The company said it is in the process of phasing out John Deere, its current source of production for midsized motor home chassis. In anticipation of the start-up of its new factory, the company said a larger-than-normal chassis supply has been built to carry it through the transition period.  







Travelers Corp. 's third-quarter net income rose 11%, even though claims stemming from Hurricane Hugo reduced results $40 million.  

Net advanced to $94.2 million, or 89 cents a share, from $85 million, or 83 cents a share, including net realized investment gains of $31 million, up from $10 million a year ago. But revenue declined to $3 billion from $3.2 billion.  

Travelers estimated that the California earthquake last month will result in a fourth-quarter pre-tax charge of less than $10 million.  

The insurer's earnings from commercial property/casualty lines fell 59% in the latest quarter, while it lost $7.2 million in its personal property/casualty business, compared with earnings of $6.1 million a year ago.  

Travelers's employee benefits group, which includes its group health insurance operations, posted earnings of $24 million, compared with a loss of $3 million last year.  

In the first nine months, net was $306 million, compared with a loss of $195 million in the 1988 period. The year-ago results included a $415 million charge in the 1988 second quarter for underperforming real estate and mortgage loans.  







A.L. Williams Corp. was merged into Primerica Corp., New York, after a special meeting of Williams shareholders cleared the transaction, the companies said.  

Primerica, which had owned nearly 70% of Williams, will pay about 16.7 million shares, currently valued at almost $472 million, for the rest of Williams. The financial-services company will pay 0.82 share for each Williams share.  

Williams shares, which were to be delisted from the New York Stock Exchange after the close of composite trading yesterday, closed at $23.25, off 12.5 cents. Primerica closed at $28.25, down 50 cents.  

Williams, Duluth, Ga., is an insurance and financial-services holding company. Its subsidiaries' services are marketed by closely held A.L. Williams & Associates. Primerica, as expected, also acquired certain assets of the agency and assumed certain of its liabilities. Terms weren't disclosed.  







Intelogic Trace Inc., San Antonio, Texas, said it bought 2.7 million shares, or about 18%, of its common stock from an unaffiliated shareholder for $3.625 a share, or $9.9 million.  

The move boosts Intelogic Chairman Asher Edelman's stake to 20% from 16.2% and may help prevent Martin Ackerman from making a run at the computer-services concern. Mr. Ackerman already is seeking to oust Mr. Edelman as chairman of Datapoint Corp., an Intelogic affiliate.  

The action followed by one day an Intelogic announcement that it will retain an investment banker to explore alternatives "to maximize shareholder value," including the possible sale of the company.  

In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday, Intelogic shares rose 37.5 cents to close at $2.75.  

Mr. Edelman declined to specify what prompted the recent moves, saying they are meant only to benefit shareholders when "the company is on a roll." He added, "This has nothing to do with Marty Ackerman and it is not designed, particularly, to take the company private."  

But Mr. Ackerman said the buy-back, and the above-market price paid, prove that Mr. Edelman is running scared.  







Dow Jones & Co. said it extended its $18-a-share offer for Telerate Inc. common stock until 5 p.m. EST Nov. 9.  

The offer, valued at about $576 million for the 33% of Telerate that Dow Jones doesn't already own, had been set to expire Nov. 6.  

Dow Jones, which owns about 64 million of Telerate's 95 million common shares outstanding, said that about 24,000 shares have been tendered under its offer.  

Telerate's two independent directors have rejected the offer as inadequate. In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Telerate shares closed at $19.50, up 12.5 cents.  

Telerate provides an electronic financial information network. Dow Jones publishes The Wall Street Journal, Barron's magazine, and community newspapers and operates financial news services and computer data bases.  







Tony Lama Co. said that Equus Investment II Limited Partnership has proposed changing the offer for the company to $13.65 in cash and stock from an all-cash transaction.  

Under terms of the new proposal, Equus, managed by Equus Capital Corp., Houston, would pay $12 cash and one new preferred share with a liquidation preference of $1.65 a share for each of Tony Lama's 2.1 million shares outstanding. Previously, it offered $13.65 a share in cash, or $29 million.  

The El Paso, Texas, maker of Western boots and leather accessories said the preferred stock would accrue dividends at a 12% rate, but wouldn't be paid for the first two years. The stock would be redeemed in five years, subject to terms of the surviving company's debt.  

Neither Equus nor Tony Lama gave a reason for the changed offer and Tony Lama couldn't be reached for comment. However, Tony Lama said it would promptly submit the offer to a special committee of the company's board.  







Reuters Holdings PLC said Michael Reupke resigned as general manager to pursue unspecified interests, a move the news organization termed an "amicable separation."  

Mr. Reupke, 52 years old and a 27-year Reuters veteran, had been the information-services company's general manager for only six months. His appointment to that post, which has senior administrative, staff and policy responsibilities, followed a several-year tenure as Reuters's editor in chief. No successor was named, and Mr. Reupke's duties will be split among three other senior Reuters executives, the company said.  

In a telephone interview, Mr. Reupke said his departure was for "personal reasons," which he declined to specify. "There is no business reason for my departure," nor any disagreement over policy, he added. He also rejected reports that his departure stemmed from disappointment the general manager's post hadn't also led to a board directorship at the London-based news organization.  

Mr. Reupke was one of three executives on Reuters's eight-person executive committee who didn't also serve on the company's board of directors. "If I were choosing the people of tomorrow, I would have chosen the people who are now on the board," he said.  

A Reuters spokesman said the departure reflects "no change in strategy or profits." Mark Shepperd, an analyst at UBS Phillips & Drew in London, said, "I suspect (the departure) will be fairly irrelevant for the company. I would be very surprised if his departure signals any change in strategy or change in profit expectations." On London's Stock Exchange, Reuters shares rose five pence to 913 pence ($14.43). In the U.S. over-the-counter market, American depositary shares for Reuters, each representing three shares in the London market, closed unchanged at $43.875.  

The senior of the three executives who will assume Mr. Reupke's duties is Nigel Judah, 58, finance director and a Reuters board director. Peter Holland, 45, deputy general manager, becomes director of corporate affairs. And Patrick Mannix, 46, international technical manager, becomes director of group quality programs.  







DD Acquisition Corp., a partnership of Unicorp Canada Corp. 's Kingsbridge Capital Group and Cara Operations Ltd., extended to Nov. 20 its $45-a-share offer for all Dunkin' Donuts Inc. shares outstanding.  

The offer, which was due to expire yesterday, is conditional on 50.1% of Dunkin' common shares, on a fully diluted basis, being tendered and on the withdrawal of the company's poison pill rights plan.  

DD Acquisition has launched a suit in a Delaware court seeking the withdrawal of Dunkin's poison pill rights and employee stock ownership plans, which it claims were put in place to deter bidders.  

DD Acquisition said 2.2 million shares, or about 38.5% of the shares outstanding, have been tendered under its offer. The partners said they already hold 15% of all shares outstanding.  

Dunkin' has set Nov. 10 as the deadline for the receipt of any competing bids. DD Acquisition said the extension is to allow this process to be completed. Dunkin' is based in Randolph, Mass. Cara, a food services chain operator and Unicorp, a holding company, are based in Toronto.  







Savin Corp. reported a third-quarter net loss of $35.2 million, or 31 cents a share, compared with year-earlier profit of $3.8 million, or one cent a share.  

A spokesman for the Stamford, Conn.based company said operations had a loss of $5.5 million for the quarter; in addition, the loss was magnified by nonrecurring charges totaling $23.5 million and $8.2 million in asset-valuation adjustments that he described as "unusual." The charges were partly offset by a $2 million gain on the sale of investments of two joint ventures, he said.  

Revenue declined 8% to $85.7 million, from $93.3 million a year earlier. Savin cited "a general softening in the demand for office products in the market segments in which Savin competes."  







Hadson Corp. said it expects to report a third-quarter net loss of $17 million to $19 million because of special reserves and continued low natural-gas prices.  

The Oklahoma City energy and defense concern said it will record a $7.5 million reserve for its defense group, including a $4.7 million charge related to problems under a fixed-price development contract and $2.8 million in overhead costs that won't be reimbursed.  

In addition, Hadson said it will write off about $3.5 million in costs related to international exploration leases where exploration efforts have been unsuccessful.  

The company also cited interest costs and amortization of goodwill as factors in the loss.  

A year earlier, net income was $2.1 million, or six cents a share, on revenue of $169.9 million.  







Heritage Media Corp., New York, said it offered to buy the shares of POP Radio Corp. it doesn't already own in a stock swap.  

Heritage, which owns 51% of POP's 3.6 million shares outstanding, said it will exchange one share of a new preferred stock for each POP common share it doesn't already own. Depending upon how many warrants and options are exercised prior to completion of the transaction, Heritage would issue between 1.8 million and 2.35 million preferred shares, a Heritage spokesman estimated. In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, POP plunged $4 to $14.75.  

The preferred stock, which would have a dividend rate of $1.76 a year, would be convertible into Heritage common at a rate of four common shares for each preferred. New York-based POP Radio provides, through a national, in-store network, a customized music, information and advertising service which simulates live radio. Heritage owns and operates television and radio stations and in-store advertising and promotion programs.  







RMS International Inc., Hasbrouk Heights, N.J., facing a cash-flow squeeze, said it is seeking other financing sources and waivers from debenture holders.  

The company said that because of softening sales it isn't in compliance with requirements that it maintain $3 million in working capital. RMS distributes electronic devices and produces power supplies and plastic literature displays.  

RMS said it had a loss of $158,666, or 10 cents a share, in the third quarter, compared with a year-earlier loss of $26,956, or two cents a share. Sales rose to $3 million from $2.9 million.  

For the nine months, the company reported a net loss of $608,413, or 39 cents a share, compared with year-earlier net income of $967,809, or 62 cents a share. Sales rose to $9.8 million from $8.9 million.  







Meridian National Corp. said it sold 750,000 shares of its common stock to the McAlpine family interests, for $1 million, or $1.35 a share. The sale represents 10.2% of Meridian's shares outstanding.  

The McAlpine family, which operates a number of multinational companies, including a London-based engineering and construction company, also lent to Meridian National $500,000. That amount is convertible into shares of Meridian common stock at $2 a share during its one-year term. The loan may be extended by the McAlpine group for an additional year with an increase in the conversion price to $2.50 a share.  

The sale of shares to the McAlpine family along with the recent sale of 750,000 shares of Meridian stock to Haden MacLellan Holding PLC of Surrey, England and a recent public offering have increased Meridian's net worth to $8.5 million, said William Feniger, chief executive officer of Toledo, Ohio-based Meridian.  







Ratners Group PLC, a fast-growing, acquisition-minded London-based jeweler, raised its price for Seattle-based specialty jeweler Weisfield's Inc. to $57.50 a share, or $62.1 million, from $50 a share, or $55 million, after another concern said it would be prepared to outbid Ratners's initial offer. The other concern wasn't identified.  

Ratners's chairman, Gerald Ratner, said the deal remains of "substantial benefit to Ratners." In London at mid-afternoon yesterday, Ratners's shares were up 2 pence (1.26 cents), at 260 pence ($1.64).  

The sweetened offer has acceptances from more than 50% of Weisfield's shareholders, and it is scheduled for completion by Dec. 10.  

The acquisition of 87-store Weisfield's raises Ratners's U.S. presence to 450 stores. About 30% of Ratners's profit already is derived from the U.S.  







Valley Federal Savings & Loan Association took an $89.9 million charge as it reported a third-quarter loss of $70.7 million, or $12.09 a share.  

The Van Nuys, Calif., thrift had net income of $132,000, or three cents a share, a year ago.  

The bulk of the pretax charge is a $62 million write-off of capitalized servicing at the mobile home financing subsidiary, which the company said had been a big drain on earnings. The company said the one-time provision would substantially eliminate all future losses at the unit. Valley Federal also added $18 million to realestate loan reserves and eliminated $9.9 million of good will.  

The thrift said that "after these charges and assuming no dramatic fluctuation in interest rates, the association expects to achieve near record earnings in 1990."  

Valley Federal is currently being examined by regulators. New loans continue to slow; they were $6.6 million in the quarter compared with $361.8 million a year ago. The thrift has assets of $3.2 billion.  







First of America Bank Corp. said it completed its acquisition of Midwest Financial Group Inc. for about $250 million. First of America, which now has 45 banks and $12.5 billion in assets, announced an agreement to acquire the Peoria, Ill., bank holding company in January.  

Midwest Financial has $2.3 billion in assets and eight banks. The Midwest Financial subsidiary banks will continue to operate under their current names until early 1990, when each will adopt the First of America name.  

Kalamazoo, Mich.-based First of America said it will eliminate the 13 management positions of the former Midwest Financial parent company. First of America said some of the managers will take other jobs with First of America. But it said that severance payments to those executives not staying with the company will reduce First of America's operating results for 1989 by $3 million to $4 million, or 15 cents to 20 cents a share.  







Coleco Industries Inc., a once high-flying toy maker whose stock peaked at $65 a share in the early 1980s, filed a Chapter 11 reorganization plan that provides just 1.125 cents a share for common stockholders.  

Under the plan, unsecured creditors, who are owed about $430 million, would receive about $92 million, or 21 cents for each dollar they are owed. In addition, they will receive stock in the reorganized company, which will be named Ranger Industries Inc. After these payments, about $225,000 will be available for the 20 million common shares outstanding.  

The Avon, Conn., company's stock hit a high in 1983 after it unveiled its Adam home computer, but the product was plagued with glitches and the company's fortunes plunged. But Coleco bounced back with the introduction of the Cabbage Patch dolls, whose sales hit $600 million in 1985. But as the craze died, Coleco failed to come up with another winner and filed for bankruptcy-law protection in July 1988.  

The plan was filed jointly with unsecured creditors in federal bankruptcy court in New York and must be approved by the court.  







Sony Corp. completed its tender offer for Columbia Pictures Entertainment Inc., with Columbia shareholders tendering 99.3% of all common shares outstanding by the Tuesday deadline.  

Sony Columbia Acquisition Corp., formed for the Columbia deal, will formally take ownership of the movie studio later this month, a spokesman said. Sony is paying $27 a share, or $3.55 billion, cash and is assuming $1.4 billion of long-term debt.  

Still unresolved is Sony's effort to hire producers Jon Peters and Peter Guber to run the studio. Sony's planned acquisition of Guber/Peters Entertainment Co. for $200 million is scheduled to close Monday. Guber/Peters has been locked in litigation with Warner Communications Inc. in an attempt to get out of an exclusive production contract with Warner. Both sides are in talks to settle the dispute.  







Xerox Corp. has told employees in its Crum & Forster personal insurance operations that it is laying off about 300 people, or 25% of the staff.  

A spokeswoman for Crum & Forster said employees were told early this week that numerous staff functions for the personal insurance lines were going to be centralized as a cost-cutting move.  

She said the move would result in a after-tax charge of less than $4 million to be spread over the next three quarters. By comparison, for the first nine months, Xerox earned $492 million, or $4.55 a share, on revenue of $12.97 billion.  

Earnings at Xerox's financial-services operations actually rose slightly, but that was largely because capital gains at Crum & Forster offset Hurricane Hugo payments and the reserves set up to cover future payments.  

Property/casualty insurance has been a tough business in recent quarters, as pricing has been cutthroat and natural disasters such as Hurricane Hugo and the California earthquake have resulted in huge payments.  







Upjohn Co. said it will offer an early retirement package to as many as 1,100 employees in a cost-cutting move expected to result in a fourth-quarter charge.  

Upjohn officials said they couldn't estimate the size of the charge until they determine which employees, and how many, will participate in the retirement plan. But the pharmaceutical company said it "anticipates the long-term savings resulting from the plan's implementation will more than offset short-term costs."  

The program, available to Upjohn employees 55 years old or older, could increase an individual's retirement benefits 10% to 20%. In addition, Upjohn is offering a one-time retirement bonus equal to six months of base pay.  

Chairman Theodore Cooper called the program part of the company's two-year strategy to implement budget constraints and "an effective headcount-control program."  

But some analysts questioned how much of an impact the retirement package will have, because few jobs will end up being eliminated. "It's a cosmetic move," said Jonathan S. Gelles of Wertheim Schroder & Co.  

According to Upjohn's estimates, only 50% to 60% of the 1,100 eligible employees will take advantage of the plan. Upjohn further estimated that about 50% of the employees who leave for early retirement may be replaced. As a result, Upjohn will likely trim only about 275 to 350 of its more than 21,000 jobs world-wide.  

In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, Upjohn shares rose 87.5 cents to $38.875 apiece.  

An Upjohn spokesman said he had "heard nothing" to suggest the early retirement package was spurred by shareholder pressure or a potential bidder for the company, which occasionally has been the target of takeover speculation. The company earlier this year adopted a shareholder-rights plan to ward off unwanted suitors.  

The spokesman said it is the first early retirement plan offered under its two-year cost-control strategy. Earlier staff-reduction moves have trimmed about 300 jobs, the spokesman said.  







The Finnish government and major creditors of bankrupt shipyard Waertsilae Marine Industries Oy agreed in principle to form a new company to complete most of the troubled shipyard's backlog of 15 ships.  

The new company will attempt to limit the shipyard's losses, participants said. "The situation is that the bankruptcy court will get out of the shipbuilding business. Everything will be taken over by the new company," said Christian Andersson, executive vice president of Oy Waertsilae, former parent of Waertsilae Marine.  

Once its ownership is finalized, the new company will open talks with state-appointed receivers to buy or lease Waertsilae Marine's shipyard facilities. Subcontractors will be offered a settlement and a swift transition to new management is expected to avert an exodus of skilled workers from Waertsilae Marine's two big shipyards, government officials said.  

Under an accord signed yesterday, the government and Union Bank of Finland would become major shareholders in the new company, each injecting 100 million Finnish markkaa ($23.5 million). Oy Waertsilae is to contribute 200 million markkaa, most of it as subordinated debt, and take a minority stake in the new company.  

Customers holding contracts for Waertsilae Marine's undelivered ships are expected to subscribe most of the remaining 170 million markkaa in share capital, government officials said.  

Waertsilae Marine's biggest creditor is Miami-based Carnival Cruise Lines Inc. Carnival, which has three ships on order from Waertsilae Marine, presented claims for $1.5 billion damages in the bankruptcy court this week.  

Waertsilae Marine's bankruptcy proceedings began Tuesday in a Helsinki court.  







Ralston Purina Co. reported a 47% decline in fourth-quarter earnings, reflecting restructuring costs as well as a more difficult pet food market.  

The St. Louis company earned $45.2 million, or 65 cents a share, compared with $84.9 million, or $1.24 a share, a year earlier. Sales in the latest period were $1.76 billion, a 13% increase from last year's $1.55 billion.  

For the year ended Sept. 30, Ralston earned $422.5 million, or $6.44 a share, up 8.9% from $387.8 million, or $5.63 a share. This year's results included a gain of $70.2 million on the disposal of seafood operations. Sales for the full year were $6.6 billion, up 13% from $5.8 billion.  

Ralston said its restructuring costs include the phase-out of a battery facility in Greenville, N.C., the recent closing of a Hostess cake bakery in Cincinnati and a reduction in staff throughout the company. The battery plant, which makes rechargeable nickel cadmium and carbon zinc products, will be closed over the next year or so, a spokesman said.  

Ralston attributed its fourth-quarter slump partly to higher costs of ingredients in the pet food business as well as competitive pressures, which required higher advertising spending. For the year, pet food volume was flat, the company said.  

Its cereal division realized higher operating profit on volume increases, but also spent more on promotion. The Continental Baking business benefited from higher margins on bread and on increased cake sales, it added.  

Ralston said its Eveready battery unit was hurt by continuing economic problems in South America.  

Ralston shares closed yesterday at $80.50, off $1, in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  




	
		
			Electronic theft by foreign and industrial spies and disgruntled
				employees is costing U.S. companies billions and eroding their
				international competitive advantage. That was the message delivered by
				government and private security experts at an all-day conference on
				corporate electronic espionage. "Hostile and even friendly nations
				routinely steal information from U.S. companies and share it with their
				own companies," said Noel D. Matchett, a former staffer at the federal
				National Security Agency and now president of Information Security Inc.,
				Silver Spring, Md. It "may well be" that theft of business data is "as
				serious a strategic threat to national security" as it is a threat to
				the survival of victimized U.S. firms, said Michelle Van Cleave, the
				White House's assistant director for National Security Affairs.
			The conference was jointly sponsored by the New York Institute of
				Technology School of Management and the Armed Forces Communications and
				Electronics Association, a joint industry-government trade group. Any
				secret can be pirated, the experts said, if it is transmitted over the
				air. Even rank amateurs can do it if they spend a few thousand dollars
				for a commercially available microwave receiver with amplifier and a VCR
				recorder. They need only position themselves near a company's satellite
				dish and wait. "You can have a dozen competitors stealing your secrets
				at the same time," Mr. Matchett said, adding : "It's a pretty good bet
				they won't get caught." The only way to catch an electronic thief, he
				said, is to set him up with erroneous information.
			Even though electronic espionage may cost U.S. firms billions of
				dollars a year, most aren't yet taking precautions, the experts said. By
				contrast, European firms will spend $150 million this year on electronic
				security, and are expected to spend $1 billion by 1992. Already many
				foreign firms, especially banks, have their own cryptographers,
				conference speakers reported. Still, encrypting corporate communications
				is only a partial remedy.
			One expert, whose job is so politically sensitive that he spoke on
				condition that he wouldn't be named or quoted, said the expected influx
				of East European refugees over the next few years will greatly increase
				the chances of computer-maintenance workers, for example, doubling as
				foreign spies. Moreover, he said, technology now exists for stealing
				corporate secrets after they've been "erased" from a computer's memory.
				He said that Oliver North of Iran-Contra notoriety thought he had erased
				his computer but that the information was later retrieved for
				congressional committees to read. No personal computer, not even the one
				on a chief executive's desk, is safe, this speaker noted.
			W. Mark Goode, president of Micronyx Inc., a Richardson, Texas, firm
				that makes computer-security products, provided a new definition for
				Mikhail Gorbachev's campaign for greater openness, known commonly as
				glasnost. Under Mr. Gorbachev, Mr. Goode said, the Soviets are openly
				stealing Western corporate communications. He cited the case of a Swiss
				oil trader who recently put out bids via telex for an oil tanker to pick
				up a cargo of crude in the Middle East. Among the responses the Swiss
				trader got was one from the Soviet national shipping company, which
				hadn't been invited to submit a bid. The Soviets' eavesdropping paid
				off, however, because they got the contract.
		
	
We don't know who is winning the drug war in Latin America, but we know who's losing it -- the press.
Over the past six months, six journalists have been killed and 10 kidnapped by drug traffickers or leftist guerrillas -- who often are one and the same -- in Colombia.
Over the past 12 years, at least 40 journalists have died there.
The attacks have intensified since the Colombian government began cracking down on the traffickers in August, trying to prevent their takeover of the country.

The slaughter in Colombia was very much on the minds of 450 editors and publishers from Latin America, the United States, the Caribbean and Canada attending the 45th general assembly of the Inter-American Press Association in Monterrey, Mexico, this week.
On Tuesday the conference got word of another atrocity, the assassination in Medellin of two employees of El Espectador, Colombia's second-largest newspaper.
The paper's local administrator, Maria Luz Lopez, was shot dead, and her mother wounded, while her car was stopped for a red light.
An hour later, the paper's circulation manager, Miguel Soler, was shot and killed near his home.

The drug lords who claimed responsibility said they would blow up the Bogota newspaper's offices if it continued to distribute in Medellin.
They bombed the Bogota offices last month, destroying its computer and causing $2.5 million in damage.

El Espectador has been a special target because of the extraordinary courage of its publisher and his staff.
At Monterrey, publisher Luis Gabriel Cano, although shaken by the murders, issued a statement saying: "We will not cease our fight against drug trafficking.
They want to terrify the press and in particular El Espectador because it has always been a torchbearer in this war."
This comes from a man whose brother, Guillermo, was murdered in 1986.

The publishers in Monterrey command no battalions, but they agreed to express their outrage with editorials in today's editions.
Many will use a common editorial.
A final statement yesterday said: "While some advances are being made in nations throughout the hemisphere, the state of press freedom in the Americas still must be regarded as grim as long as journalists and their families are subject to the crudest form of censorship: death by assassination."

The report charged that Panama's Manuel Noriega is not only in league with the drug traffickers but also is bullying the press as never before.
"Noriega has closed every independent newspaper, radio and television station and arrested, tortured or forced into exile a long list of reporters," the statement declared.

It added: "In Cuba, public enemy No. 1 of press freedoms in the hemisphere, repression of journalists both Cuban and foreign is worse than ever."
And in Nicaragua, promises of press freedom by the Sandinistas "have not materialized."

As it happens, the four countries cited, Colombia, Cuba, Panama and Nicaragua, are not only where the press is under greatest attack but also are linked by the drug trade and left-wing politics.
Noriega is close to Castro and may once have been his agent.
Sandinistas Thomas Borge and the Ortega brothers are Castro proteges; he backed their takeover of Nicaragua.
In Colombia, the drug-financed guerrillas trying to seize the country and destroy democracy include M-19, which Castro has clearly backed.

Robert Merkel, a former U.S. attorney handling drug indictments in Florida, doesn't think for a minute that Castro's much publicized trials of high officials engaged in the drug trade mean he has broken off with the Medellin drug cartel.
"If the cartel succeeds in blackmailing the Colombian authorities into negotiations, the cartel will be in control and Fidel can exploit his past relationships with them," he told the Journal's David Asman recently.

The struggle against the drug lords in Colombia will be a near thing.
This week, the government arrested Jose Abello Silva, said to be the fourth-ranking cartel leader.
He will probably be extradited to the U.S. for trial under an extradition treaty President Virgilia Barco has revived.
Later, another high-ranking trafficker, Leonidas Vargas, was arrested and 1,000 pounds of dynamite seized.
Mr. Barco has refused U.S. troops or advisers but has accepted U.S. military aid.

President Bush has agreed to meet within 90 days with Mr. Barco, President Alan Garcia of Peru and President Jaime Paz Zamora of Bolivia to discuss the drug problem.
It might not be a bad idea to do that sooner, rather than later.
After the Panama fiasco, they will need some reassurance.
Certainly, the Colombian press is much in need of that.

   
   
      
         
            
               A Physics of Semantics?
            
            
               Each of the chapters of Investigations broaches new territory.
               Each is tentative and incomplete, pointing but not fully adequate.
               Yet, I persistently hope, it is better to light one candle against...what? the darkness? the veil beyond which we have had no framework of questions before?
               There are grounds, reasoned about by the best of philosophers and scientists of the past several centuries, to doubt a physics of semantics.
               We are on shaky ground.
               Yet when the first hard frost comes, when the birches have been swung, their crimson leaves scattered carelessly, when crystals splint shallow ponds and old egrets stand dark watch the coming dawn, long-legged, knowing how winter is thin, when the first phase transition of water to ice forms slight solidity across meadow streams, small creatures of flesh and concept tiptoe gingerly to some far side where, perhaps, something new is to be found.
            
            
               We have lacked a physical definition of an autonomous agent, able to manipulate the universe on its own behalfthe egret whose foreboding of winter leads to lifted wing and steady, powerful flight.
               The egret is as much a part of physical reality as the atom, and perhaps more than the vaunted quark.
               But autonomous agents, we who do daily manipulate the world on our own behalf, we to whom "intentionality" and "purpose" are so inevitably attributed by our common languages, we are, by my definition of autonomous agents, also nothing but physical systems with a peculiar organization of processes and properties.
               If the concept of autonomous agents were something like a usefulor more, a properdefinition of life itself, then autonomous agents span the gap from the merely physical to that new realm of the merely physical where "purpose" is ascribed by all of us to one another.
            
            
               Semantics enters with purpose.
               For this to be true, it is not necessary that the carriers of purpose, say, the same bacterium heading upstream in the glucose gradient, be conscious.
            
            
               I hope my definition of an autonomous agent is useful, an autocatalytic system carrying out a work cycle, now rather broadened by the realization that autonomous agents also do often detect and measure and record displacements of external systems from equilibrium that can be used to extract work, then do extract work, propagating work and constraint construction, from their environment.
            
            
               Know-how
            
            
               Bring ourselves empathetically and objectively back three billion years to the mixed microbial community flourishing right about where most of us are now, plus or minus a modicum of layers of surface crustal material.
            
            
               I want to say that the autonomous agents comprising that community had, individually and collectively, the embodied know-how to get on with making a living in the natural games that constituted their world.
               Indeed, as I have emphasized before, a biosphere is a self-consistent coconstruction of autonomous agents, ways of making a living, and the search procedures, mutation, recombination, as well as behavioral search open to autonomous agents.
               Those means of making a living that were well searched out and mastered by the agents and their search procedures became the kinds of "jobs" that were widely filled, the abundant niches of the bio-sphere.
               There is in this whole self-constructing system a wider know-how, beyond the know-how of any single autonomous agent spinning eagerly in its microenvironment.
               Yet, clearly, the know-how is distributed.
               There is no autonomous agent, no one, who knows how the whole system works, any more than anyone at present knows how the global economic system works in its myriad interactions, deals, steals, hopes, and frustrations.
            
            
               What in the world is "know-how"?
               Philosophers distinguish between "know-how" and "know that."
               I know how to tie my shoes and am learning how to play jazz drums.
               "Know that" concerns propositions, most conveniently, human propositions.
               I know that the moon isthey tell menot made of green cheese.
               I know that the earth circles the sun, that the earth is roughly spherical, that chairs are used to sit on.
               "Know that" brings with it the standard and nonstandard issues of the truth or falseness of propositions as they report states of the world.
               Perhaps higher primates who are trained to manipulate simple symbols with apparent reference to the world also can "know that" with respect to propositions.
            
            
               Unlike "know that," "know-how" does not involve propositions about the world.
               "Know-how" involves procedural knowledge about how to get on in the world.
               The cheetah streaking after the wildebeest, the athletic genius high jumping, have the know-how to do it.
            
            
               Does a bacterium know how to make a living in its world?
               I certainly want to say yes, without attributing consciousness in any way.
               Watch the myriad subtle turnings on and o of genes, metabolic switching, mechanical twitching, sensing of glucose gradient, swimming and tumbling upstream to higher glucose concentrations.
               It knows how all right, even if it cannot talk about how it gets on with its business.
               But then, try to talk about tying your shoes or the skilled driving when you become aware some dozens of miles down the road that you have accomplished the tasks without paying the slightest focused attention.
            
            
               Thank God for know-how.
               Know that is a thin veneer on a four-billion-year-old know-how skill abundant in the biosphere.
               But any autonomous agent proliferating alone or in a congery of other agents, it would seem, is also graced by the selfsame know-how.
               If we synthesize autonomous agents in the next decades and they coevolve under our rapt gaze over months or years into a modestly complex ecosystem brimming with novel life forms, they too will know how to make a living in their mutually created world plus the boundary conditions we more or less intelligently impose on them.
            
            
               The know-how is, in these terms, nothing but another view of the propagating closures of catalysis, work tasks, sensing, recording, and acting that we now recognize as inherent in the doings of autonomous agents.
               The know-how is not outside that propagating organization.
               The know-how is the propagating organization.
            
            
               Semantics
            
            
               All of which brings us, inevitably, to the brink of semantics.
            
            
               It is simple at its roots, you see.
               An incoming molecular species arriving in the interior of an autonomous agent really is (i) food; (ii) poison; (iii) a signal; (iv) neutral; (v) something else.
            
            
               Once there is an autonomous agent, there is a semantics from its privileged point of view.
               The incoming molecule is "yuck" or "yum."
               I think the major conceptual step to yuck or yum is unavoidable once there is an autonomous agent.
               And I think we have roughly the Darwinian criteria in mind.
               If yum, then there will probably be more of this type of agent, osprings of the first.
               If yuck, it is not so likely this lineage will prosper.
            
            
               Once yuck and yum, we are not far from C. S. Pierce's meaning-laden semiotic triad: sign, signified, significans.
               Like it or not, the glucose gradient is a sign, a predictor, of "more glucose that way."
               Granted, the glucose is not an arbitrary symbol, any more than a cloud is an arbitrary symbol of rain.
               In this restricted sense, signs are causally correlated with that which is signified.
               By contrast, the relation between the word "chair" and that which it signifies, and on which I am now sitting, is arbitrary.
               But can chemical signals in bacterial and plant and human communities be arbitrary from a chemical causal point of view?
               If so, can "mere chemicals" be signs in the full Piercean sense?
            
            
               I believe it is clear that mere chemistry in an autonomous agent can harbor symbols and signs in the full senses of the words.
               Consider first the famous genetic code.
               Triplets of nucleotides in an RNA molecule stand for specific amino acids that will end up incorporated into a protein.
               The detailed causal machinery involves transfer RNA molecules with their anticodon site and the distant site to which amino acids are attached, the aminoacyle transferase enzymes that charge the amino acid binding site of each transfer RNA with the proper amino acid among the twenty amino acids, the binding of the charged transfer RNA's anticodon site to the proper RNA code word triplet, the ribosome that glides between adjacent charged transfer RNA molecules and links the successive amino acids into the growing polypeptide chain that hangs free in the cytoplasm, tethered by the ribosome to the messenger RNA molecule as it is "translated."
            
            
               The arbitrariness of the genetic code is exemplified by the evolution of novel transfer RNA molecules, which translate a given messenger RNA code word triplet into a dierent amino acid.
               As J. Monod properly emphasized three decades ago in a slightly dierent context concerning activation and inhibition of enzymes at allosteric sites on the enzyme that are distant from the catalytic site, the relation of chemical structures that achieve control of catalysis are utterly arbitrary with respect to the chemical structures that undergo the catalysis.
               The same is true of the transfer RNA where the anticodon site is distant from the amino acid binding site.
               Because of this, which amino acid is charged onto a particular transfer RNA is utterly arbitrary and controlled by the aminoacyle transferase enzyme that does the charging, plus the structure of the amino acid binding site on the transfer RNA.
               Both of these can be altered without altering the anticodon-codon matching mechanism.
               In short, chemistry allows arbitrary organizations of control relations.
            
            
               It seems fully legitimate to assign the concepts of sign, signified, and significans to the genetic code.
               It seems legitimate to extend that notion to much of the subtle signaling, chemical and otherwise, within and between autonomous agents, as exemplified by plants that upon infestation by a particular insect secrete a secondary metabolite chemical that "warns" other members of the same species that an insect infestation is happening and to turn on defensive anti-insect secondary metabolites.
            
            
               The calculus that is Claude Shannon's elegant information theory has always been about reduction of uncertainty about the statistics of the source of a set of symbols.
               Nowhere in the core of Shannon's work concerning the encoding and transmission of information does the meaning, or semantics, of the information enter.
               This is no criticism, and is widely known and appreciated.
               There is, however, just a hint of semantics in Shannon's view that the semantics resides in the "decoder."
            
            
               I cannot buy Shannon's view unless the decoder is an autonomous agent.
               If not, then the decoder merely transforms a bit string sent along a communication channel into some other discrete or continuous dynamicsperhaps a set of water-filled bowls is drained by turning on a machine that opens valves between the bowls and to the outside world in particular ways.
               The patterns of bowl drainage upon receipt of the binary string messages sent along the communication channel constitutes the decoding.
            
            
               But if the recipient is an autonomous agent such as a bacterium and the incoming molecule is a symbol-sign of a paramecium or an amoeba on the roam and the bacterium swims away and avoids becoming dinner, that sequence of events seems laden with semantics.
               If only the bacterium could tell us: "Did you see that truck of a paramecium coming at me?
               I've run into that one before!
               I ducked under a boulder, and he never sensed me.
               I made it home.
               Pass me some more glucose please, Martha."
            
            
               I will return in the next chapter to discuss such stories, for I will say that we cannot prestate the configuration space of a biosphere and, therefore, cannot deduce that which will unfold.
               Thus, among other things, we must tell stories to understand the oriented actions of agents in their worlds.
               Do not be overly quick to accuse me of anthropomorphizing.
               I too know the risks, including the common claim that we can always in principle translate from "intentional talk" to the fully predictive causal account of the events in question.
               But patience.
               Not only are we unable to prestate the configuration space of a biosphere and predict what will unfold, but we also cannot even translatein the sense of necessary and sucient conditionsfrom legal talk to normal intentional talk, let alone from legal talk of Henderson found guilty of murder to a physical talk about sound-wave forms monitored and masses at space-time lines as a description.
            
            
               Then let's just be naive for the moment.
               The semantics of the yuck or yum coming into a simple autonomous agentsay, an early bacteriumis somehow linked with the embodied know-how of that agent in making a living, or failing to make a living, in its world.
               The semantics of an event is some subset of the fully embroidered, context-dependent set of causal implications of the event, or signal, in question.
            
            
               "For want of a nail, the shoe was lost; for want of the shoe, the horse was lost; and for want of the horse, the rider was lost," more or less, said Benjamin Franklin.
               The semantics of the nail is some subset of this embroidered context-dependent set of implications of the event, or signal, in question to the autonomous agents in the coevolving system.
            
            
               It seems hard to ascribe purpose, in the sense of acting on its own behalf, to a stone or a chair and easy with respect to an alga.
               Of course, there is a sense in which my attribution of semantics to autonomous agents is purely tautological.
               After all, I began by stating that a bacterium swimming upstream in the glucose gradient was acting on its own behalf in an environment, defined an autonomous agent as a physical system able to act on its own behalf, then asked what a physical system must be such that it can act on its own behalf.
               Now, five chapters later, it is hardly an independent deduction that autonomous agents are the proposed organization of matter, energy, and organization to which purposes can be ascribed in the sense of being able to act on their own behalf.
               My definition is a definitional circle.
            
            
               On the other hand, while the definition is circular, like F = MA and Darwin's "natural selection" and "fitness," that does not mean that the set of codefined concepts surrounding my definition of an autonomous agent as a reproducing system that does a work cycle fails to touch the real world.
               Stones and chairs are not, by my definition, autonomous agents.
               All living cells are.
               And the stunning fact directly before us, every day, is that autonomous agents do manipulate the world on their own behalf.
               Watch a pair of nesting birds build their nest.
            
            
               In short, once we have autonomous agents and yuck and yum, it appears that semantics enters the universe as the agents coevolve and behave on their own behalf with one another in the unfolding of a biosphere.
            
            
               Knowing
            
            
               What about "knowing"?
            
            
               Daniel Dennett, in his fine book Darwin's Dangerous Idea , advances a hierarchy of forms of "knowing," if I may use that term, that have arisen in evolution by Darwinian means.
               I find his hierarchy congenial and informative.
               Dennett envisions evolution as a sequence of kinds of construction cranes that bit by bit build up higher-order entities via variation and natural selection.
            
            
               I do not disagree, although I have placed far greater emphasis on the roles of self-organization in evolution.
               Here, in Investigations , I am trying to point at the mysterious but utterly natural hopefulness in which an increasing diversity of broken symmetries in the universe creates the diversity of structures and processes that can constitute and identify ramified and ramifying sources of energy, detect those sources of energy, create devices and processes that couple to those sources of energy, and generate yet more diversity that propagates macroscopic order even further.
               I wonder, in short, at the naturalness and self-generaticity of Dennett's cranes building cranes building cranes in biospheres, perhaps planetary geologies, and beyond.
            
            
               But back to the past.
               Dennett distinguishes "Darwinian creatures," "Pavlovian creatures," "Popperian creatures," and "Gregorian creatures."
               A simple autonomous agent, say, a bacterium, is a Darwinian creature.
               In its simplest version, the creature evolves by mutation, also recombination and natural selection.
               For the moment, no behavioral learning is to be considered.
               So one (or a colony or an ecosystem) of Darwinian creatures adapts more or less as Darwin told us.
            
            
               At the next level up, say, aplysia, a nervous system is present, and the creature is capable of stimulus-response learning,  la Pavlov.
               Indeed, aplysia can learn very simple conditioned stimulithe later analogue is the bell causing the dog to salivate in "expectation" of food.
            
            
               At the next level (Dennett, perhaps properly, reserves this for us vertebrates) is the Popperian creature.
               Popperian creatures, in Dennett's fine phrase, have "internal models" of their world and can "run the internal model" with the clutch disengaged, rather than running the model in real time in the real world.
               This allows us lucky Popperian creatures to allow our "hypotheses to die in our stead."
               I love that image.
            
            
               Beyond the Popperian is the Gregorian creaturenamely, at least humans.
               Dennett makes the wonderful argument that we utilize our toolsliterally stone knives, arrows, digging sticks, machine toolsto enlarge our shared world of facts and processes.
               This enlarged shared world gives us more know-how, and more know that.
               Cultural evolution, at some point, begins to burst out-of-bounds.
               Hard rock music jangles the minarets of Iran.
               Who knows what new cultural forms will blossom?
               Chinese cooking lands in Cuba, and Cuban-Chinese cuisine is invented.
               What's next under the sun?
               Who can say?
            
            
               I very much like Dennett's ladder of know-how, and eventual know that.
               Without invoking consciousness, not because it is not worth invoking but because so little sensible has ever been said on the subject, it seems worth asking how much of this hierarchy could be realized by simple molecular systems, even without evoking nerve cells.
            
            
               I would think a lot of this hierarchy could find molecular realizations.
               For example, bacteria and amoebae do have a kind of Pavlovian learning already, for they have receptors that accommodate to a constant level of a given signal ligand and sense instead a change from the current level.
               This is not yet the association of a more or less arbitrary conditioned stimulus with an unconditioned stimulus, but I can imagine chemistry to accomplish the latter.
               As neurons are supposed to proliferate and form novel synaptic connections that survive if used and to mediate the linkage of conditioned to unconditioned stimulus, why not envision a complex chemistry, say, very complex carbohydrate-synthesis patterns sustained by complex sets of enzymes whose activities are modulated by the dierent carbohydrates themselves, which is true of contemporary carbohydrate metabolism.
               Such a system might blindly try out variant patterns of synthesis until it could establish a self-sustaining web linking the carbohydrates, the enzymes, and certain protein receptors mediating the linkage between unconditioned and conditioned stimulus, then maintain that linkage by positive feedback loops.
               The image is not too far from how it is imagined that "idiotype" and "anti-idiotype" immune networks work to sustain synthesis of a set of desired antibodies against an incoming pathogen.
               In such networks, for which there is modestly good evidence, a given first antibody serves as an antigen that stimulates the body to produce a second antibody that binds to the unique amino acid sequences, called the "idiotype" of the first antibody.
               In turn, the second "anti-idiotype" antibody stimulates a third, which stimulates a fourth.
               But this series is likely to form feedback loops because the first and third antibody can often both bind to the same site on the second antibody, hence, the first and third antibodies are similar shapes in shape space.
               It is not much of a stretch to think of the immune system as a conditioned stimulus response system.
            
            
               Popperian creatures?
               Why cannot the molecular-sensing and hypothesis-testing churning concerns of the bacterium as it senses a paramecium churn twenty cycles before kicking in the rotary motor, or not, such that the wee bacterium hides under a boulder of a grain of sand until the beast passes by?
               Are nerves necessary?
               Plants, as noted, are said to signal one another with complex secondary metabolites to characterize the particular kinds of insects infesting the glade.
               There are arbitrary structural relations between the metabolite and the insect, just as symbols in human language are often arbitrary with respect to the signified.
               Not bad for nerveless nonvertebrates.
            
            
               I do get stuck at Gregorian creatures.
               Even here, the free and open creating of new symbol strings in a language, wherever new sentences can be created, is not that fundamentally dierent from the persistent open creation of new kinds of molecules in the biosphere as a whole.
               If the conversation we recent two-legged ones are having with respect to our digging sticks and atomic bombs is impressive, so too is the chemical conversation in any full-fledged ecosystem, where we are all instrumental in the lives of one another.
            
            
               I suppose I am naively driven to consider that the biosphere, with its urgent diversity in which, emboldened by all our know-how, we do get on with a very rich conversation, may very early already have harbored all the levels of which Dennett speaks.
               We humans are just more gregarious with our vocal cords and e-mail, I guess.
               Smart place, a biosphere, lots to talk about.
               Four billion years of yammering.
               Slapstick comedy may have started a long time ago.
            
            
               Ethics
            
            
               And what of ethics?
               Does a whiff of ethical issue arise with autonomous agents?
               Yuck or yum from my point of view if I am an autonomous agent.
               There are deep reasons for caution.
               Hume told us long ago about the "naturalistic fallacy": One cannot deduce "ought" from "is."
               From the fact that mothers care for their young, we cannot deduce that they ought to do so, Hume argued.
               From the fact that Hitler set out to conquer Europe and more and to kill Jewry, we cannot deduce that he ought to have done so.
            
            
               Indeed, Hume's injunction underlies the caution of scientists about making ethical statements.
               We scientists find the facts.
               You citizens across the globe can argue the ethics.
               But if Hume warns us not to deduce ought from is, where do values come from at all?
               Hume's injunction against deduction from is to ought nevertheless began by recognizing the legitimacy of the category "ought."
            
            
               The eorts following Hume to understand the meaning of ethical assertions have been long, twisted, arduous.
               Following the dictates of the logical positivists of the Vienna Circle that only those statements capable of verification were meaningful, philosophers as famous as G. E. Moore came to wonder if ethical assertions were merely emotive utterances.
               "It is wrong to kill."
               Becomes, "Agggah!"
               Does the positivist argument seem persuasive?
               It has always amused me that the core injunction of the logical positivists, "only those statements that are empirically verifiable are meaningful," is itself not empirically verifiable.
               One is reminded of something about hoisting and petards.
            
            
               John Rawls of Harvard has argued eloquently that our human notions of fairness derive from what we would all "contractually" agree to, were we to know before birth that we would all be born with diering abilities and endowments.
               Thus "equality before the law" is one contract that Rawls commends to us.
               "Equality before the law" is far more refined than the yuck or yum of the bacterium.
               The emergence of ethics in the evolution of life on this planet is a fascinating issue.
            
            
               I will content myself with wondering where "value" and the rudiments of "intentionality" come from in the physical universe in the first place and leave social contracts for other eorts.
               Where is the place of value in a world of fact?
            
            
               So, a short soliloquy.
               Facts are know-that statements.
               But know-how preceded know that.
               While fully aware of Hume's injunction, I think that from the autonomous agent's perspective, yuck or yum is primary, unavoidable, and of the deepest importance to that agent.
               I suppose we apply the Darwinian criteria.
               Too much yuck, this one and its progeny are gone from the future of the biosphere.
               Without attributing consciousness to an E. coli , or an autonomous agent we may create in the near future, I cannot help but feel that the rudiments of value are present once autonomous agents are around.
            
            
               And again without attributing consciousness, once an autonomous agent is around is the rudiment of intentionality present?
               If so, another cornerstone of ethical activity has been laid.
               Ethical behavior requires first the logical possibility of behavior for which one is responsible.
               You are not responsible for acts and eects beyond your control.
               To act ethically, you must first be able to act at all.
            
            
               But what are "acts" in the first place?
               Daniel Yamins is a brilliant young mathematician.
               Now entering Harvard, Dan spent a summer with me at the Santa Fe Institute before he learned to drive, after an earlier summer spent in the laboratory of Jack Szostak at Harvard, where, at age fourteen, Dan was learning to evolve RNA molecules to bind arbitrary ligands.
               Dan and I struggled that summer to make the distinction between the "doings" of an autonomous agent and mere happenings in and around the autonomous agent.
               Note we say the E. coli is swimming upstream in the glucose gradient to get dinner.
               But all sorts of molecular vibrational, rotational, and translational motions are occurring.
               What are actions and what are mere happenings?
            
            
               I do not think we were successful in drawing a clean distinction between doings and happenings with clear mathematics.
               But I sense that the distinction between doings and happenings, Dan's happy phrasing, is relevant for E. coli , tigers, us, trees, and autonomous agents in general.
               We will meet a similar problem in the next chapter when we attempt to distinguish between the function of a part of an organism and the other causal consequences of that part of the organism.
            
            
               Strange and interesting, is it not, that these issues all seem to arise with autonomous agents but not otherwise?
               Granted that we here seem to confront the language game circularity alluded to earlier, yet I do truly think that the rudiments of semantics, intentionality, value, and ethics arise with autonomous agents.
               I do not think those rudiments suce to jump over Hume's naturalistic fallacy.
               We cannot deduce ought from is in any concrete context, but I think we have the categories of ought and is in the physical universe once we have autonomous agents.
            
         
      
   




Zoot Suit
A style of suit worn by African Americans, Filipino Americans, and Mexican Americans during the 1930s and 1940s. In Chicano culture this style of dress is primarily associated with the pachucos of the 1940s. The fashion at that time was to wear very baggy pants with pegged legs, long jackets with high and sharp shoulder pads, thick-soled shoes, and long watch chains dangling from the belt. An addition to the whole style common to Chicanos was a particular haircut, long with a ducktail and a wide-brimmed hat.
The word zoot was known within the urban jazz culture of Harlem, and it meant something either exaggerated in performance or in style. Many African Americans wore an extravagant style of clothing, the baggy pegged pants and jackets with padded shoulders, that later became known as the zoot suit. In the novel Invisible Man by Ralph Ellison, he describes the zoot--suiters style, walking slowly, their shoulders swaying, their legs swinging from their hips in trousers that ballooned upward from cuffs fitting snug about their ankles; their coats long and hip-tight with shoulders far too broad to be those of natural western men (1947, 380). In the late-night jazz scenes of Harlem this style was a killer-diller coat with a drape-shape, reat-pleats and shoulders padded like a lunatics cell (380). Tyler makes the point that the zoot suit was an extremely symbolic costume, which gave the wearer the look of a child in adult clothing. The broad square shoulders gave a macho look to the youth, and the finger-tipped coat was made for fun and leisure. The long baggy pants were made for dancing, especially the jitterbug, and the wide Panama hats were another sign of adulthood. The business of fun, dancing and dating were the key characteristics displayed by Zoot-Suiters. It was an escape from drudgery and futile labor to the bliss of free-wheeling movement in the city among youths in the new youth culture (Tyler, 23). Prominent black entertainers wore the zoot suit, such as Cab Calloway, Sammy Davis Jr., and Duke Ellington. Ellington performed at the Orpheum in Los Angeles in 1941 and 1942 with a musical called Jump for Joy in which the performers wore zoot suits, also known as Gone with the Wind suits, after the style worn by Clark Gable in the movie by the same name.
Even though the zoot suit was worn by the young men of several different races and ethnicities, it is primarily identified with the pachucos of Los Angeles. Pachucos were mostly second-generation Mexicans, the sons of migrant laborers and working-class immigrants. Pachucos created their own subculture, an arrogant style of dressing, a bilingual secret argot, and for some individuals membership in petty criminal gangs. The zoot suit became a symbolic disguise that identified the zoot-suiter as neither a Mexican nor an American. It was not a bicultural or binational position, but rather a position between cultures, a hanging in space position. The overly confident, slow swagger of the pachuco, today exemplified by the cholo, made it appear in fact as if the zoot-suiter were walking on air.
During the summer of 1943 the attention of the whole country was on Los Angeles when gangs of sailors and zoot-suiters battled with each other in the streets of the city. It is unclear if this was a race riot or a riot of patriotic sailors who attacked, beat, and stripped young Mexican Americans whom they perceived to be unpatriotic zoot-suiters. Between the third and thirteenth of June zoot-suiters were open targets. Much has been written about these riots from both literary and historical perspectives.
During the late 1970s the zoot suit received wide recognition and popularity with the production of a successful play by Luis Valdez. In 1981 a film by the same name, Zoot Suit, was produced and directed by Luis Valdez, with performances by actors Daniel Valdez and Edward James Olmos.
See also Cholos; Pachucos
References Barker 1950; Cosgrove 1989; Ellison, 1947; Mazon 1984; Orona-Cordova 1992; Sanchez 1978; Stone 1990; Tyler 1994; Valdez 1992; Zoot Suit 1981
Zozobra
A giant, forty-foot effigy in the form of a puppet, which is burned during the annual Santa Fe Fiesta held in Santa Fe, New Mexico. The word Zozobra translates to gloom or worry or anguished. The Zozobra is ritualistically burned at the beginning of the fiesta, which symbolizes the end of destructiveness, gloom, and worry, setting the tone for a successful fiesta. The creation of Zozobra was introduced into the fiesta in 1926 by Will Shuster, who felt that the fiesta had become dull and commercialized. Throughout the years the image of Zozobra changed from a simple twenty-foot puppet to the elaborate forty-foot figure with animated eyes, arms, and mouth that he is today. In 1969 Shuster turned over the responsibility and copyright of Zozobra to the Kiwanis Club of Santa Fe. He is hung on a tall pole on a hill, outside the city, where the burning can be seen by the thousands of people who come to watch. The death of gloom is supposed to resurrect happiness.
In response to the tradition of the burning of Zozobra, a group of New Mexico Chicanos started a tradition of burning El Kookoee, a figure known by many Chicanos as the bogeyman, during the Festival de Otoo.
See also El Kookoee; Santa Fe Fiesta
References Cohen 1985; Grimes 1976; Weigle and White 1988








Deformation and river response 

Before specific examples of syntectonic impacts on alluvial rivers can be discussed, a brief review of types of tectonic activity, types of rivers, and river response will be presented. This background material sets the stage for detailed discussions that follow. 

Types of deformation

The surficial movements in an alluvial valley can take different forms, as illustrated in Figure 2.1. The displacement can be seismic and associated with earthquakes and abrupt faulting, or it can be aseismic with progressive tilting and warping of the valley floor. Faults may be lateral faults that displace or offset the channel (Figure 2.1A) without vertical displacement. This type of displacement should be easily recognized. Faults with vertical displacement may have the uplifted block upstream of the fault with the result that gradient is steepened (Figure 2.1B). In the opposite case, the gradient will be decreased (Figure 2.1C). The effect will resemble monoclinal tilting (Figure 2.1F, G). Pairs of faults may produce uplifted (horst) or downdropped blocks (graben) that will both steepen and reduce gradient (Figure 2.1D, E). This has the same effect as domes and anticlines or basins and synclines (Figure 2.1H, I). 

In addition to all of these structural features, the entire valley may be tilted upstream or downstream or the tilting may be across the valley toward either side of the floodplain (Figure 2.1J, K, L). The possibilities are great, but in reality the result will be local steepening or reduction of gradient or cross-valley tilting. 

Streams respond to vertical displacement along faults (Figure 2.1B and C) by aggradation or degradation. When the displacement produces a channel segment steeper than the original stream gradient (Figure 2.1B), erosion will be initiated in this reach. When the displacement produces a channel segment of lower elevation or gradient than the original stream (Figure 2.1C), aggradation will occur. Even small displacements may be sufficient to induce aggradation or degradation of large streams. If the displacement forms a dam (Figure 2.1C), the stream will be blocked, and it will flow along the fault or form a lake. Wallace (1968) mentioned that even a few inches of vertical upthrow along the downstream side of a fault can produce a dam across a small stream, which can divert its course. 

NULL

Figure 2.1 Surface deformation by faulting, folding, and lateral tilting. Plan view on left; cross-section on right (from Ouchi, 1983) small arrows indicate direction of flow. Large arrows indicate direction of movement. The displacement in each case is greatly exaggerated. 

Horst and graben (Figure 2.1D and E) combine two different types of vertical displacement (Figure 2.1B and C). There will be aggradation upstream from the horst, and degradation, which will migrate upstream, on the downstream part of the horst. Reduced sediment supply because of aggradation upstream will enhance the downstream degradation. Upstream of the graben, there will be degradation and aggradation in the graben itself. A river in such a location will be unstable, as Cartier and Alt (1982) suggested for the Bitterroot River in Montana. 

The type of folding (Figure 2.1) will affect a river similar to the various types of faulting, but changes will probably be less abrupt. The effects of tilting will depend upon the amount, but in the simplest case, steepening of a valley will cause degradation (Figure 2.1K) and a reverse tilt (Figure 2.1L) will cause deposition. Lateral tilting will cause channel shift downdip (Figure 2.1J) or avulsion. 

Figure 2.1 shows only simple, but exaggerated cases, whereas actual displacements can be more complicated. For example, faults can take any angle from parallel to perpendicular to river flow direction. Fault displacements of the surface at the time of an earthquake are obvious, and its influence on alluvial rivers can be observed. For example, small stream channels have been offset by strike-slip movement (Figures 1.8, 2.1A) of the San Andreas fault. Wallace (1968) pointed out that the offset of a stream channel depends on the relative rates of fluvial and tectonic processes. The main reason why channel offset caused by the San Andreas fault is clear is the extremely high rate of displacement along the fault (20.3 mm/year, Brown and Wallace, 1968) and the relatively small size of streams crossing and flowing along the fault. While fault displacements are obvious, movements of the land surface by folding can be slow. However, this type of deformation can also be an important influence on river behavior. For example, concentration of erosion along only one river bank can be the result of lateral tilt (Jefferson, 1907; Nanson, 1980a; Leeder and Alexander, 1987). 

Types of alluvial rivers

It is apparent that different types of alluvial channels will respond differently to deformation; therefore, their characteristics must be reviewed before their response can be evaluated. This can best be done by discussing a simple classification of alluvial channels that is based on type of sediment load and pattern. 

Five basic channel patterns exist (Figure 2.2): (1) straight channels with either migrating sand waves; or (2) with migrating alternate bars forming a sinuous thalweg; (3) two types of meandering channels, a highly sinuous channel of equal width (pattern 3a) and channels that are wider at bends than in crossings (pattern 3b); (4) the meanderingbraided transition; and (5) a typical braided stream. The relative stability of these channels in terms of their normal erosional activity and the shape and gradient of the channels, as related to relative sediment size, load, velocity of flow, and stream power, are also indicated in Figure 2.2. It has been possible to develop these patterns experimentally by varying the gradient, sediment load, stream power, and the type of sediment load transported by the channel (Schumm and Kahn, 1972). Therefore, alluvial channels have also been classified according to the type of sediment load moving through the channels, as suspended-load, mixed-load, and bed-load channels (Figure 2.2). Water discharge determines the dimensions of the channel (width, depth, meander dimensions), but the relative proportions of bed load (sand and gravel) and suspended load (silts and clays) determine not only the shape of the channel but widthdepth ratio and channel pattern. A suspended-load channel has been defined as one that transports less than 3 percent bed load and a bed-load channel as one transporting more than 11 percent bed load (Schumm, 1977). The mixed-load channel lies between these two (Figure 2.2). 

NULL

Figure 2.2 Channel classification based on pattern and type of sediment load with associated variables and relative stability indicated (Schumm, 1981). 

Alluvial rivers that transport clay, silt, sand, and gravel, can be placed within these three general categories. However, within the meandering-stream group there is considerable range of sinuosity (1.25 to 3.0). In addition, in the braided-stream category, there are bar-braided and island-braided channels (islands are vegetated bars). 

Figure 2.2 suggests that the range of channels from straight to braided forms a continuum, but experimental work and field studies have indicated that the changes of pattern between braided, meandering, and straight, occur relatively abruptly at river-pattern thresholds (Figure 2.3). The pattern changes take place at critical values of stream power, gradient, and sediment load (Schumm and Kahn, 1972). 

NULL

Figure 2.3 Relation between flume slope and sinuosity during experiments at constant water discharge. Sediment load, stream power, velocity increase with flume slope and a similar relation can be developed with these variables (from Schumm and Khan, 1972). 

Although the five patterns of Figure 2.2 involve all three river types, there are five basic bed-load channel patterns (Figure 2.4A) that have been recognized during experimental studies of channel patterns (Schumm, 1977, p. 158). These five basic bed-load channel patterns can be extended to mixed-load and suspended-load channels to produce 13 river patterns (Figure 2.4). Patterns 15 are bed-load channel patterns, patterns 610 are mixed-load channel patterns, and patterns 1113 are suspended-load channel patterns. Figure 2.4 attempts to show sinuosity differences and how the pattern thresholds change with increasing valley slope, stream power and sediment load for each channel type. The three major river types are controlled by type of sediment load, but within each type, the different patterns reflect increased valley slope, sediment load, and stream power. 

The different bed-load channel patterns (Figure 2.4) can be described as follows: Pattern 1, straight, essentially equal-width channel with migrating sand waves. Pattern 2, alternate-bar channel with migrating side or alternate bars and a slightly sinuous thalweg; Pattern 3, low-sinuosity meandering channel with large alternate bars that develop chutes; Pattern 4, transitional meandering-thalweg braided channel. The large alternate bars or point bars have been dissected by chutes, but a meandering thalweg can be identified. Pattern 5 is a typical bar-braided channel. 

As compared to the bed-load channels, the five mixed-load channels (Figure 2.4B) are relatively narrower and deeper, and there is greater bank stability. The higher degree of bank stability permits the maintenance of narrow, deep, straight channels (Pattern 6), and alternate bars stabilize because of the finer sediments to form slightly sinuous channels (Pattern 7). Pattern 8 is a truly meandering channel, wide on the bends, relatively narrow at the crossings, and subject to chute cutoffs. Pattern 9 maintains the sinuosity of a meandering channel, but with a greater sediment transport the presence of bars gives it a composite sinuous-braided appearance. Pattern 10 is a braided channel that is relatively more stable than that of bed-load channel 5, and it is likely to be island-braided. 

NULL

Figure 2.4 The range of alluvial channel patterns for the three channel types: (A) bed-load channel patterns, (B) mixed-load channel patterns, (C) suspended-load channel patterns (from Schumm, 1981). 


Suspended-load channels (Figure 2.4C) are narrow and deeper than mixed-load channels. Suspended load Pattern 11 is a straight, narrow, deep channel. With only small quantities of bed load, this type of channel may have the highest sinuosity of all (Patterns 12 and 13). 

Rivers may undergo a metamorphosis during which the channel morphology changes completely. That is, a suspended-load channel (Pattern 12) could become braided (Pattern 5), or a braided channel (Pattern 5) could become meandering (Pattern 8 or 12), etc., when there is a sufficiently great change in the type of sediment load transported through that channel. Therefore, the change from one type of channel pattern to another may be relatively common, as the nature of the sediment moved through the system changes and this may be the effect of tributary sediment contributions, or upstream degradation or aggradation or tectonics. 

There is an additional channel pattern that spans the range of stream types of Figure 2.4. This is the anastomosing pattern of branching and rejoining channel segments (Schumm et al., 1996). The channel segments can be straight, meandering, or braided, and they appear to span the range of channel types. Anastomosing or anabranching channels differ from braided channels because they are composed of multiple channels that are separated by a floodplain (Figure 2.5), whereas braided channels have multiple thalwegs in a single channel. Knighton and Nanson (1993) and Richards et al. (1993) suggest that this pattern is transitioned to a single channel because anastomosing rivers appear to be associated with partly blocked valleys (Smith and Smith, 1980) and tectonic uplift (Gregory and Schumm, 1987). Reduced gradient from whatever cause appears to be important, and therefore, anastomosing reaches of a river can be evidence of tectonic activity. 

Evidence of deformation 

The first geomorphic clues of active tectonics may be tectonic landforms that result from long-continued deformation such as modified drainage networks and deformed sets of terraces. These obvious features are in contrast to the more subtle changes of alluvial rivers. 

Drainage networks

The arrangement of streams and tributaries into a drainage network is affected by the regional slope of the surface on which the pattern develops, climate, and the erodibility of the surface material. Local variations in both slope and materials will cause variations in the drainage pattern (Figure 1.2). For example, experimental studies demonstrated that parallel drainage patterns form on slopes greater than about 2.5 percent, whereas dendritic patterns form on gentler slopes (Phillips and Schumm, 1987). 

NULL

Figure 2.5 Map of anastomosing channels of Ovens and King Rivers. Numbers indicate relative ages of channels and reaches of channels from youngest (1) to oldest (4) (from Schumm et al., 1996). 

Local variations in regional surface slope can cause anomalous drainage patterns. A topographic high caused by active uplift, will cause a deflection of portions of the drainage pattern. For instance, on the upslope side of an uplift the local surface slope will be opposite that of the regional slope. This can cause portions of the drainage pattern to develop in a direction opposite to that of the drainage network. An uplift may also deflect portions of the drainage from the general direction of the regional slope (Figure 2.6). As the major streams are deflected away from the uplift, tributaries on one side will be lengthened and those on the other side will be shortened. 

Changes of an entire drainage network, as a result of tilting, are described by Sparling (1967) who notes that isostatic adjustment in Ottawa County, Ohio has increased the gradient of some streams and decreased the gradient of others. Incision of the steepened streams permitted them to capture the streams that were aggrading as a result of reduced gradient. Russell (1939) described various drainage patterns found in the flat alluvial lands of Louisiana, and he recognized a network pattern of poorly developed drainage channels that was converted to a dendritic pattern, as a result of tilting and steepening of the gradient. 

NULL

Figure 2.6 Drainage pattern modified by uplift. 

Price and Whetstone (1977) used asymmetric river and valley cross-section profiles, as evidence for movement along the Chattahoochee Embayment in Florida. Subsidence caused southward migration of eastwest flowing channels. South-flowing streams exhibit paired terraces while eastwest trending streams contain extensive terraces on the northern side with few or no terraces on the steeper southern margin. Subsidence in the Chattahoochee Embayment and adjacent warping along the Chattahoochee Uplift resulted in asymmetrical incision along the Chattahoochee River. 

Long-continued tilting in a cross-valley direction will cause lateral erosion and the development of an asymmetrical valley and drainage network. Muehlberger (1979) noted this type of asymmetry in an area near Taos, New Mexico (Figure 2.7). Using 71minute U.S. Geological Survey topographic

2 maps, he described this asymmetry quantitatively. By selecting a contour on the valley wall and measuring the distance from the stream to this contour in a down-tilt direction (Dd) and in the opposite, uptilt direction (Du) an index of asymmetry was developed (Dd/Du) (Figure 2.7). The index for 30 small drainage basins was 0.6 indicating a major displacement of the main channel in a down-tilt direction. Cox (1994) used a somewhat different index to demonstrate tilting and river shift in the southwestern Mississippi Embayment. Other indices of asymmetry are described by Keller and Pinter (1996, pp. 126, 127). 

NULL

Figure 2.7 Map of asymmetrical stream valleys in the vicinity of Taos, New Mexico showing method of measuring distances used in calculating index of asymmetry (modified after Muehlberger, 1979). 

Lake patterns

Lakes are temporary features in terms of geological time, but they can be clear evidence of deformation. They occur at various scales, along primary or secondary portions of the drainage network, and generally disappear as erosion and deposition occurs through time. They may be isolated, but they are more frequently clustered in a specific area, or they are aligned along specific trends. Isolated lakes are generally due to local events such as landslides or collapses, which form a dam, but clustered lakes are due to regional processes, which may be related to climate (or paleoclimate), neotectonic deformation, or frequently a combination of these processes. 

Large lakes may occupy geological basins, and active tectonics is partly or totally involved in their formation. Such lakes act as drainage collectors and they can occupy various elevations. The Bolivian Altiplano lakes (Titicaca, Popoo, Uyuni) stand at an elevation of around 4000 m and are associated with plate convergence and uplift. Continental stretching and transtensional tectonics are favorable for the formation of basins and tectonic lakes. Often the relation of lakes to faults is obvious, and a study of the lake pattern is not necessary to demonstrate the effect of tectonics. (See Chapter 5 where Reelfoot Lake and the Mississippi valley sunklands are described; Figures 5.1, 5.2). 

NULL

Figure 2.8 Inferred fault zone in the area of the Tupinambaranas, in the Amazon Basin between Obidos and Manaus Brazil (modified after Sternberg, 1955). The river trace and ria lakes suggest a downward movement along the same axis as that of the inferred fault. 

This discussion deals with cases where specific lake patterns, (ria lakes and elongated lakes), are related to active deformation. Most of these concepts are not new. For example, the significance of ria lakes was identified more than 30 years ago. 

Ria Lakes 

Dendritic ria lakes occur at the lower part of a tributary, which is blocked by aggradation along the trunk river (Holz et al., 1979). In the lower and central parts of the Amazonian Basin the formation of ria lakes is related to post-glacial eustacy (Irion, 1984). Some of these lakes have a knee pattern superposed on the dendritic pattern suggesting the effect of active faulting through a thick sedimentary cover (Sternberg, 1950, 1955, Figure 2.8). 

NULL

Figure 2.9 Structural scheme of the Maran Basin in Peru, composed of the Pastaza Basin and the Ucamara Depression. Stars show the location of the main ria lakes, with the area A represented in detail. The contour lines show the isobath of the pre-Jurassic basement, from Sanz (1974). Section along XY in the lower part of the figure, modified after Laurent (1985). 

Reservoirs behind dams take the form of ria lakes. Clusters of ria lakes are observed along large rivers in the western Maran Basin and in the central Ucayali Basin, Peru (Rsnen et al., 1987; Dumont, 1993). They are related to active subsidence of the back side of piggy back or thrust faults. Similar patterns are observed on the south margin of the Beni Basin (Dumont, 1992; Dumont and Guyot, 1993). 

An elongated cluster of ria lakes is located along the lower Pastaza River and the Maran River in the western part of the Maran Basin (Figure 2.9). This cluster is superimposed over the structural axis of the basin, which trends toward the Ucamara Depression. This axis of maximum subsidence of the basin is located in front of the Subandean Thrust and Fault Belt (STFB). 

NULL

Figure 2.10 Relative positions of tectonic lakes in the Peruvian foreland basins. Stars indicate location of clusters of ria lakes (modified after Dumont , 1996). 

The Pastaza depression is filled by more than 4 500 m of Cretaceous and Cenozoic sediments, with about 500 m of Quaternary sediment (Laurent, 1985) (Figure 2.9). No ria lakes are observed in the south part of the Maran Basin (Ucamara Depression), but ria lakes occur again in the Ucayali Basin of Central Peru (Figure 2.10), a piggy-back basin. 

A continental rift generates tilt of the side blocks in opposite directions and the progressive tilting of the earths surface can significantly modify the gradient of rivers. For example, Lake Victoria is drained by the Victoria Nile which flows north to Lake Kyoga (Figure 2.11). Lake Kyoga and Lake Kwania look artificial, but they are not the result of dam construction. They are, in fact, formed by uplift and eastward tilting of western Uganda. Flow in the Kafu River has been reversed, and water draining from Lake Victoria has found a new course to the north, where it flows over Murchison Falls and into Lake Albert. The geologically recent derangement of these drainage systems is the result of uplift that is apparently continuing at the present time (Doornkamp and Temple, 1966). 

NULL

Figure 2.11 Lake Kyoga region, Uganda. Arrows show flow directions in rivers. Back tilting explains the shape of Lake Kyoga and Lake Kwania (modified after Doornkamp and Temple, 1966). 

Elongated lakes 

The term elongated lakes is applied to lakes that are long and narrow. These lakes are superimposed over basement structures. In subsiding basins, they are also closely related to active tectonics. 

The Puinahua (1324 km2) and Punga (341 km2) lakes are both located in the south part of the Maran Basin (Figure 2.10). They are long and narrow and wider on the foothill side than on the craton side. Punga Lake is superimposed over the structure of the Santa Elena uplift (Dumont and Garcia, 1991), which is interpreted as a crystalline horst surrounded by Paleozoic sedimentary strata (Laurent, 1985). The NE elongation of the lake is parallel to a few of the structural features mentioned by Laurent (1985). Both lakes are also parallel to the strike of normal faulting with a NNWSSE extension in the upland border (Dumont et al., 1988). As a result, the lakes are interpreted as the surface expression of tensional stress superimposed over reactivated basement structures due to the onset of Andean tectonics (Dumont and Garcia, 1991). 

More precise morphological evidence of active tectonics comes from the Punga Lake. According to testimony of old settlers and published travel journals (Stiglish, 1904) the area was covered by forest, that developed on a terrace before 1923. Then the region began to subside. The tree trunks of the drowned forest are still visible, now below 2 m of water during low water stages. In this very flat area the water level rises about 2 m during floods, suggesting a minimum subsidence of 4 m over about 70 years. A tectonic interpretation is favored because a local rise of base level cannot be involved. Only a downward motion of the area where the lake is observed can explain the phenomenon. These lakes are related to downdropped blocks that are related to a tensional system. 

Terraces

The vertical warping of terraces, as a result of deformation, has been studied by numerous investigators (Machida, 1960; Zuchiewicz, 1980; King and Stein, 1983). The offset of terraces by lateral faulting gives a clear indication of fault movement. The offset terraces at the mouth of the Waiohine Gorge in New Zealand shows the amount of displacement and the episodic nature of the displacement (Figure 2.12). In addition to river terraces, the deformation of lake terraces and marine terraces (Keller and Pinter, 1996) are proof of isostatic and tectonic activity because they formed horizontally at a given water level. An example is the isostatic deformation of the Pleistocene Lake Bonneville shorelines, Utah (Crittenden, 1963). Portions of the Lake Bonneville shorelines have been deformed as much as 210 feet, as it drained and evaporated to form Great Salt Lake. In addition, deformed marine terraces provide an excellent indication of recent deformation along 440 km of the Pacific Coast of Baja, California (Orme, 1980). Not only are terraces deformed, but as an uplift is crossed, a floodplain can be converted to a low terrace. This will, of course, dramatically alter the hydraulics and hydrology of the reach. 

In addition to the obvious evidence of deformation described above, evidence of deformation is provided by alluvial deposits and paleosoils (Machette, 1978; Keller et al., 1982; Bull, 1984; Rockwell et al., 1984; Rockwell, 1988) by variations in gradients of streams of different orders (Merritts and Vincent, 1989; Merritts and Hesterberg, 1994) and by variations of valley and river longitudinal profiles (Volkov et al., 1967; Seeber and Gornitz, 1983). 

NULL

Figure 2.12 Block diagram of the displaced river terraces at the mouth of the Waiohine Gorge, New Zealand. The West Wairarapa Fault extends from bottom left (southwest) to top right (northeast) and has cut and moved successive river terraces (I = oldest terrace; VI = youngest terrace). The amount (in feet) each terrace has been moved by the fault is indicated (H = amount of horizontal movement; V = amount of vertical movement). The length of the fault shown on the diagram is about 0.8 km (1/2 mile) (modified after Stevens, 1974). 

River response 

The clearest evidence for tectonic effects on rivers are anomalous reaches that show dramatic changes of pattern trend and gradient that cannot be attributed to other causes. Structural geologists and petroleum geologists have known for years that rivers are strong indicators of faulting (Lattman, 1959; Howard, 1967). 

Tectonic activity can significantly control river patterns and behavior, and this is especially true of alluvial rivers. Neef (1966) and Radulescu (1962) state that neotectonic movements can be reflected only in those geomorphic features that react to the smallest changes of slope, such as meander characteristics. In addition, the variations of thickness and distribution of recent sediments indicate the variability of tectonics in a given valley. Clearly, one of the most sensitive indicators of change is the valley floor profile and longitudinal profile of a stream (Bendefy et al., 1967; Zuchiewicz, 1979). 

Alluvial rivers will be very sensitive indicators of valley slope change. In order to maintain a constant gradient, a river that is being steepened by a downstream tilt will increase its sinuosity or braid, whereas a reduction of valley slope will lead to a reduction of sinuosity or aggradation if the pattern cannot change. For example, Twidale (1966) reported that both the Flinders and Leichardt Rivers have changed to a braided pattern, as a result of the steepening of their gradient by the Selwyn Upwarp in northern Queensland, Australia; and the Red River near Winnipeg, Canada is straightening, as a result of reduction of gradient by isostatic rebound (Welch, 1973). Other examples are provided by the Mississippi River between St. Louis and Cairo and the lower Missouri River (Adams, 1980) as well as the Red River of the North near Winnipeg, Canada (Vanicek and Nagy, 1980). 

Baselevel changes can also resemble the effects of active tectonics, and can provide information on channel change. For example, if sea-level is lowered, and a steep portion of the continental shelf is exposed, the effect will be like that downstream of the axis of an uplift. Lane (1955) argued that a lowering of baselevel will cause channel adjustment throughout most of the river. Indeed, Lanes (1955) argument that a stream will restore its gradient at a higher or lower level following a baselevel change is conceptually correct because if the river is initially at grade, then to move its sediment load and water discharge through the channel, the original gradient of the stream must be reestablished. However, sediment loads may be greater after channel incision and less after aggradation. Another fallacy in Lanes argument is the assumption that the valley slope and channel gradient are identical. This is not the case, and the two-dimensional perspective leads to erroneous conclusions. For example, a sinuous river has a gradient less than that of the valley floor. 

Sinuosity (P) is the ratio between channel length (L c) and valley length (L v), and it is also the ratio between valley slope (S v) and channel gradient (S c) as follows: 



Therefore, a straight channel has a sinuosity of 1.0, and the gradient of the channel and the slope of the valley floor are the same. It has been demonstrated that rivers can respond to major changes of water and sediment load primarily by pattern changes (Schumm, 1968), and that much of the pattern variability of large alluvial rivers such as the Mississippi, Indus, and Nile, reflect the variability of the valley slope (Schumm et al., 1994; Jorgensen et al., 1993; Schumm and Galay, 1994). 

NULL

Figure 2.13 Effect of a baselevel fall on channel length and pattern. See text for discussion. 

Figure 2.13 illustrates this concept geometrically, and it shows the impact of the lowering of baselevel in a valley with a stream of sinuosity (P) 1.5. The line AC represents the channel profile, and the line AB represents the profile of the valley floor. Points B and C are at the river mouth, and points F and G are at the same location in the valley. The channel distance is one-third longer than the valley distance, and the difference in channel and valley slope reflects the sinuosity of the stream. The length of the channel is 1.5 times the length of the valley and, therefore, the stream gradient is one-third less than the valley slope (equation 1). If a vertical fall of baselevel from B to D and C to E is assumed, channel incision and lateral erosion will steepen the valley floor. If the channel is not confined laterally, it can adjust to the increased valley slope (FD) by increasing sinuosity to 2.0, and the channel profile is extended to H. In this case, incision ceases at point F in the valley and at point G in the channel because the increase of sinuosity from 1.5 to 2.0 from G to H maintains a constant channel gradient over the reach of increased valley slope (FD). The one-third increase of channel length (sinuosity) between G and H compensates for a one-third steepening of the valley floor from F to D. 

According to Lanes assumptions, the effect of this baselevel fall would be propagated upstream to point A, where an amount of erosion equal to BD would occur. However, because the stream can adjust, the steepening of the valley floor will not result in a change of stream gradient. Rather the channel lengthens, and the effect of baselevel lowering is propagated only a relatively short distance upstream. The distance will undoubtedly depend on local conditions and the original slope of the valley floor, but this exercise supports Sauciers (1991) contention that Pleistocene sea level change in the lower Mississippi valley was effective only as far as Baton Rouge (see also Blum, 1993 and Blum and Valastro, 1994). The probability that a large river can adjust in this fashion is made more likely by the fact that the baselevel changes in nature will take place relatively slowly and not abruptly, unlike during the experimental studies. The river, therefore, has more time to adjust by changing sinuosity. 

Further evidence for the type of channel response shown in Figure 2.13 is demonstrated by the experimental studies of Jeff Ware (1992 oral comm.). He lowered baselevel relatively slowly to a maximum of 12 cm in a flume with a total length of 18.4 m. This change would have doubled the channel gradient. However, the effect of the baselevel lowering extended only 4 m upstream, and the change in baselevel was accommodated by an increase of sinuosity from 1.2 to 1.5 in the lower 4 m in the flume. It is clear, however, that pattern change did not totally compensate for the change of baselevel. This channel widened and roughness increased, thereby assuming part of the adjustment to the baselevel change. 

Wares experiments showed that a sinuosity increase, which resulted in a slope decrease, was only part of the adjustment, and width, depth, and roughness adjusted to decrease velocity and stream power. Therefore, channel pattern change may only absorb part of a valley slope or baselevel change. The River Nile provides an example of such shared adjustment with both sinuosity and width changing as valley slope changes (Schumm and Galay, 1994). 

Changes of valley-floor gradient provide an explanation of downstream pattern variations, but variations of valley-floor slope can be the result of several influences. Tectonic activity may change the slope of the valley floor and have its effect on the channel pattern (Adams, 1980). In addition, a high-sediment-transporting tributary may build a fan-like deposit in the valley, which will persist even after the tributary sediment load has decreased. When the main river crosses this fan, pattern changes will result, as the river attempts to maintain a constant gradient. Tributaries to the Jordan River in Israel have developed fan-like deposits in the valley, and the valley floor of the Jordan Valley undulates as a result. The Jordan River, as it approaches one of these convexities, straightens as it crosses the upstream flatter part of the fan and then it develops a more sinuous course on the steeper downstream side of the fan (Schumm, 1977, p. 140). 

It is important to realize that channels that lie near a pattern threshold (Figure 2.3) may change their characteristics dramatically with only a slight change in the controlling variable. For example, some rivers that are meandering and that are near pattern thresholds become braided with only a small addition of bed load (Schumm, 1979). Experimental studies and field observations confirm that a change of valley-floor slope will cause a change of channel morphology. The change will differ, however, depending where the channel lies on a plot such as that of Figure 2.3 and depending on the type of channel (Figure 2.4). For example, with increasing slope, a straight channel will become sinuous, a low sinuosity channel will become more sinuous, and a meandering channel will braid. With decreasing slope, a braided channel will meander and a meandering channel will straighten. 

NULL

Figure 2.14 Reaches of degradation and aggradation associated with uplift and faulting. 

Although pattern changes may dominate river response, deposition in reaches of reduced gradient is likely as is channel incision and bank erosion in reaches of steepened gradient (Figure 2.14). In fact, upstream deposition will reduce downstream sediment loads thereby increasing the tendency for downstream erosion. Therefore, in addition to the primary valley-floor deformation by active tectonics and the secondary channel response to this deformation, there are third-order effects beyond the area of deformation. For example, deposition upstream from the axis of a dome can progress further upstream by backfilling beyond the area of active deformation (Figure 2.14). This means that the uplift is acting as a dam, and unless erosion on the steeper downstream side of the uplift produces sufficient sediment to compensate, erosion will occur downstream beyond the limits of deformation. However, it is more likely that reduced sediment load will accelerate erosion on the steeper downstream reach, and when this increased load moves downstream, aggradation will result (Figure 2.14). 

NULL

Figure 2.15 Effect of change from weaker (W) to more resistant (R) materials on meander pattern. 

Another aspect of both active and neotectonics is the appearance of more resistant materials in the channel as the channel degrades. Resistant alluvium (clay plugs, gravel armor) or bedrock will confine the channel and retard meander shift and bank erosion. The result should be deformed or compressed meanders upstream and a change of meander character at the contact. For example, as meanders shift downvalley, their movement may be retarded if more resistant alluvium or bedrock is encountered (Jin and Schumm, 1987). Hence, a fault may present a barrier with the result that upstream meanders are compressed and deformed (Figure 2.15). A similar pattern will result if the river encounters bedrock as it crosses an upwarp or if, as a result of incision, it encounters resistant materials in a portion of its course. Yeromenko and Ivanov (1977) reviewed the Russian literature and concluded that for rivers crossing uplifts, the largest number of meanders occur upstream of the structures, which supports Gardners (1975) observations of bedrock channels in the Colorado Plateau. This is the reverse of what is expected for alluvial channels from the relation of Figure 2.3. Therefore, an investigator must not simply base conclusions on river pattern alone. 

Discussion

Alluvium is usually assumed to hide the underlying geology, but rates of active tectonic movement are sufficiently rapid to affect the morphology and behavior of alluvial rivers. Rivers being the most sensitive components of the landscape will provide evidence of even, slow, aseismic tectonic activity. For example, evidence of active tectonics is as follows: 


	1.
	deformation of valley floor longitudinal profile
	2.
	deformation of channel longitudinal profile
	3.
	change of channel pattern 
	4.
	change of channel width and depth
	5.
	conversion of floodplain to a low terrace
	6.
	reaches of active channel incision or lateral shift 
	7.
	effects both upstream and downstream of the zone of deformation (degradation, aggradation, flooding, bank erosion)
	8.
	formation of lakes 


Alluvial channels are sensitive indicators of change, but they also adjust to changes of hydrology and sediment load as well as to active tectonics. Therefore, it may be difficult to determine the cause of channel change when, in fact, human activities have been changing both discharge and sediment load during historic time. Pattern change alone is not sufficient evidence for active tectonics, rather it is one bit of evidence that must be supported with other morphologic evidence and/or surveys that provide clear evidence of deformation. In many areas, the evidence will be circumstantial. Nevertheless, anomalous reaches that are not related to artificial controls, tributary influences, lithologic change, or paleotectonics may reasonably be assumed to be the result of active tectonics until proved otherwise. 

Lakes can also provide information on subsidence, and ria lakes can be evidence of tilting or even hydrologic and climatic influences. For example, during Pleistocene aggradation in the Ohio River and Mississippi River valleys, numerous lakes formed in tributary valleys. Therefore, care must be exercised when determining the tectonic significance of lakes and other river anomalies. 







7 The future of boundaryless careers



When massive economic restructuring forced William H. Whyte Jrs (1956) organization man to walk permanently out of the front doors of the corporation, many of the assumptions of a traditional career path followed shortly behind. In the wake of his departure, people were left pondering how they would survive without a job for life, a corporate road map to guide their destiny and the firms hierarchy to define their status or place in society. Without employers orderly structures, external guides for action, and linear career paths, however, just what is the future of career? When the career devolves to the level of the individual does free agency prevail and a form of career anarchy result? Is there anything that can be concluded about careers if everyone seems to be doing their own thing? 

We argue here that the answer is an emphatic yes. The new environment suggests a shift from pre-ordained and linear development to perpetually changing career paths and possibilities. As a result a shift from bounded careers  prescribed by relatively stable organisational and occupational structures  to boundaryless careers  where uncertainty and flexibility are the order of the day  is increasingly common. The concept of the boundaryless career is broadly based, and intended to reflect the emergent pace of economic change. It does not characterise any single career form, but rather a range of possible forms that defy traditional employment assumptions (Arthur & Rousseau, 1996, p. 6). 

The myriad interactions of a boundaryless career over a lifetime of work experiences can appear overwhelming. A complex web of relationships emerges from numerous exchanges among individuals, teams, and employers. The interplay may seem downright chaotic. So much so, that one may be tempted to think that no aggregates can be drawn from this seemingly random micro-level behaviour. Yet, despite the large amount of publicity generated as organization man was shown to the door, a large proportion of people who participate in the work place, and even whole industries, never really played by the traditional rules anyway. For these people and industries the boundaryless career is simply business as usual. It is business to which we can turn to understand better the future of career or  as we see the future  the boundaryless career. 

We focus in this chapter on situations where boundaryless career practices appear to be well established and fruitful, involving industries where open labour markets have thrived. Our examination suggests that seemingly random micro-level activities result in the creation of emergent pattern and order. Further examination reveals not only order, but remarkable stability. In the absence of external guides, people selforganise to learn and make sense of their environments. Moreover, the resulting social interdependence provides a new form of cohesiveness that, in turn, introduces new structure. Micro-level activities gather the force and the power to shape macro-level processes and larger institutions. It is organising, rather than organisation, that is the catch-word of the boundaryless career. 

In this chapter we set out to explore the pervasive nature of boundaryless careers. We present a theoretical perspective through which we can understand the dynamics of boundaryless careers followed by descriptive analysis demonstrating evidence of theory in practice in two selected industries. First we present relevant aspects of Karl Weicks work (1979, 1995, and 1996) and discuss the process of enactment. We then examine the industry cases. We conclude by refining the arguments by noting key behavioural aspects of enactment and other considerations of the process. 

An enactment perspective 

Our exploration in this chapter is framed in the socialpsychological perspective of Karl Weick (1996). Weicks work provides a theoretical lens for explaining the processes at work in boundaryless career behaviour. His conception of enactment, directly related to his previous (1995) work on sensemaking, explains the dynamics of the characteristic interdependence that operates in boundaryless careers. The enactment view emphasises that action creates the environment. That is, people create situations and understandings out of their own dispositions and backgrounds. A simple analogy is with the legal system. People enact laws, which become part of the legal system which in turn influences further behaviour, leading people to enact new laws, and so on. A legal system continually evolves from the enactment of individual laws. Similarly, career systems evolve from the enactment of individual careers. 

Another way to engage with enactment is to relate it to the process of natural selection. According to Weick (1996), careers unfold through successive cycles of enactment, selection, and retention, whereby the enactment of careers gives rise to broader organising of work arrangements. From this standpoint, the basic theme for the entire organizing model is found in the following recipe for sensemaking: How can I know what I think until I see what I say?  (Weick, 1979, p. 133). In the simplest form of the recipe, enactment is saying (action), selection is seeing what I say (perception), and retention is knowing what I think (sensemaking). 

If enactment is saying then it is, in essence, the action of individuals in their environment that starts the process. When someone takes action, or interacts with their environment, it immediately impacts others and hence the individual produces part of their environment. For example, if you believe a certain group of individuals to be hostile, when you interact with them your behaviour may reflect your fear. In response they may sense that fear and behave in a hostile manner. The environment becomes hostile. Moreover, you have contributed to enacting that hostile environment. The result is a circular self-reinforcing relationship resembling a self-fulfilling prophecy. An alternative, perhaps more satisfactory circular relationship could result if, instead of fear, you initially showed confidence. 

How do we relate this process to boundaryless careers? For this, it is important to understand that there is less room for personal inputs, manoeuvring, or enactment if there are clear salient rules and structures defining behaviour. In traditional bounded organisations and careers the proliferation of structure, hierarchy, plans, detailed job descriptions, prescribed relationships, and established road maps provide an armoury of articulated rules and social cues to guide behaviour. The situation is strong (Mischel, 1968) in as much as it provides little scope for improvisation. 

In the pure form of the boundaryless career, however, such explicit guides do not exist. Instead of providing clear guidelines, employment situations are characterised by ambiguity. Weak situations fall short of providing sufficient incentives for consistent behaviour or even similar expectations for those operating within them (Mischel, 1968). In weak situations individuals are not able to interpret events in the same way, and the resulting ambiguity opens the door to myriad personal interpretations and opportunities for enactment. People engage in a stable process of trial and error that resembles an evolutionary system (Weick, 1979). People join together in shared improvisation that begins to form new codes and structures to guide their further behaviour. In the process microstrength shapes macroweaknesses (Weick, 1996, p. 44) through the unfolding of boundaryless careers. 

To illustrate the preceding argument we will apply Weicks ideas to descriptions provided by AnnaLee Saxenian (1996) on the dynamics of the Silicon Valley and by Candace Jones (1996) on the independent film industry. We reinterpret the contributions of these authors by explicitly re-framing them within Weicks framework (and we emphasise it is these three authors, and their original descriptions and ideas, that deserve the major part of the credit for this chapter). 

To show how enactment and associated principles of self-organising and learning come to life, we will trace the process of enactment in each setting. First, we will describe the factors that have contributed to boundaryless career forms in each example. Next, we will cite some of the characteristics that make the resulting circumstances weak. After that we will discuss the social behaviour and collective actions that fill the resulting void in the environment. Finally, we will point out the patterns, order, and shape we see enactment bringing to each of these respective settings. By doing so we hope to convey the pervasive qualities of both the process of enactment and the vehicle through which it operates  the boundaryless career. 

The Silicon Valley 

The Silicon Valley is notorious for the individual and collective success of its firms. So much so that the name Silicon Valley has come to be synonymous with the electronics industry. The region is regarded as the centre for excellence and innovation and has given rise to some of the worlds most influential firms, including Apple, Hewlett Packard, and Intel. Since its inception the Valley has operated with an individualistic open labour market. Today, the learning advantages that emanate from associated boundaryless career behaviour are regarded as a key source of competitive advantage for the region (Saxenian, 1996). One can argue that the Valleys boundarylessness is a necessary feature of operating in a dynamic industry that demands constant innovation. Proponents point out that, in order to learn and solve the problems encountered in rapid technological advancement, knowledge must be shared among firms in a symbiotic balance between co-operation and competition. Boundaryless characteristics appear more prominently when an industry is knowledge  rather than capital-intensive or when firms operate in economic clusters. 

However, other industry clusters and several notable large electronics firms do not engage with boundaryless practices. We may, therefore, attribute the boundaryless features of the Silicon Valley to its heritage. Some believe this is in part due to the location of the region, hosting a West Coast Northern Californian alternative in geographical isolation from the established East Coast industry. The greenfield site had an empty slate and no institutional rules. Others, like the late William Hewlett, a key and highly influential founder of the region, believe that success stemmed from the learning advantages of an open labour market. Hewlett routinely offered the following advice . . . If you want to succeed here you need to be willing to do three things: change jobs often, talk to your competitors and take risks  even if it means failing  (Saxenian, 1996, p. 23). Hewlett was himself influenced by his Stanford Dean of Engineering William Terman, a mentor and an influential Hewlett Packard board member (Collins & Porras, 1995). Today, Hewletts and Termans philosophy permeates the region. Despite fierce inter-firm competition, open information exchange is common practice among the regions producers. 

Several features of the Valley contribute to creating a weak environment. The high pace of technology and product life cycles, fluidity of firm formation and failure, rapid employee turnover resulting in little com-pany-specific socialisation, as well as a lack of meaningful institutionally based hierarchy, all contribute to an environment in which individuals rely on alternative cues to guide their behaviour. For example, in the Valley, technology moves quickly and competition is tough. New firms form almost overnight -and many disappear just as quickly. When firms come and go like ships in the night it is not surprising that employees tend to identify with their profession, not their company. Moreover, peoples loyalty is not only to their profession, but to the host industry region. As one local semiconductor executive reportedly noted: Many of us wake up in the morning thinking that we work for Silicon Valley Inc.  (Saxenian, 1996, p. 23). They view job-changing as the norm. 

Average job tenure is in the area of two years, and annual turnover is around 35%, and often higher for smaller firms (Saxenian, 1996). As one engineer explained: two or three years is about the max [at a job] for the Valley because theres always something more interesting across the street (Saxenian, p. 28). Knowledge and practices cross company borders at a pace that defies the embedding of routines within the boundaries of any single company, and instead favours inter-company exchange. Everyone knows that, upon leaving a company, they may well work together again in the future: A colleague might become a customer or a competitor; todays boss could be tomorrows subordinate (Saxenian, p. 29). Institutionally based hierarchy, therefore, loses its saliency. In the Valley, respect and authority are gained through competence, technical excellence, and market share, with the highest regard accorded to successful entrepreneurs. 

In the context of this weak environment, clear social behaviour emerges as structure gets built at the micro-level. People seek to form relationships and routines in order to learn and thrive in their surroundings. In the Valley, information is the life-blood of the industry and continuous learning through relationships is the key to a successful career. People build their own competence by active membership in the larger learning community. Learning takes place in the pub or club. In the Valleys early days, it used to take place in the infamous Wagon Wheel Bar and the Homebrew Computer Club. Now it takes place in one of many watering holes or hobby groups where the Valleys high-technology workers regularly meet for lunch or after work. In these meeting places, people gather to see old friends, gossip, and make new acquaintances. In the workers adopted social settings, the transition from friendly chatter to serious business occurs naturally. 

In the Silicon Valley, collective actions unfold through a combination of mutual interests, intellectual curiosity, and problem solving geared towards developing new markets, technologies, products, or applications for computers. Workers have a systemic commitment to technical excellence in their field. As one engineer explained, the process is quite simple: people rub shoulders and share ideas (Saxenian, p. 27). The knowledge of these informal groups is so powerful that many local entrepreneurs came to see social relationships and even gossip as crucial aspects of their business (Saxenian, p. 26) As one local manager claimed: Over a lunch conversation or a beer, youll learn that company A or company B has a technology you want . . . If it fits your needs, youll build it into your next product (Saxenian, p. 31). In this manner, micro-level conversations influence the creation of new technologies, products, and applications. 

It is through such social interaction and collective action that we begin to understand how patterns and order emerge in the Valley. In the absence of hierarchy and centralised planning, employees in the Valley rely on their skills, rather than on formal position, to provide a reference point for their careers. Such self-generated guides are reinforced by professional social networks, which provide a tacit road map about who knows who and who does what in the industry. These networks serve as efficient job search networks and makeshift recruitment centres. As one engineer reported: You dont just hire people out of the blue. In general, its people you know, or you know someone who knows them (Saxenian, p. 27). Social networks impose structure on larger and looser situations. It is the region and its relationships, rather than the firm, that define opportunities for individual and collective advances in Silicon Valley (Saxenian, 1996). 

Thus, while Silicon Valleys high rates of job mobility and new-firm formation lead to local losses for individual firms, they also foster a dynamic process of adaptation that spurs the evolution of the region. Knowledge of the latest techniques in design, production, and marketing is diffused rapidly throughout the area. The result is an exceptional rate of technical and organisational innovation created by a complex mix of social solidarity and individualistic competition (Saxenian, 1996, p. 25). The resilience of Silicon Valleys economy shows that an unpredictable open labour market and seemingly chaotic career paths and relationships have led to macro-economic stability for the region and hence continued opportunity for the community at large. Ironically, many of these Silicon Valley job hoppers may well have led more stable lives than the upwardly mobile organizational men of the 1950s who were transferred from place to place by the same employer (Saxenian, p. 28). 

The independent film-making industry 

Like the Silicon Valley, the independent film-making industry is noted for its innovative ability, cutting edge creativity, and overall economic success. Like in the Silicon Valley, boundaryless careers are central to independent film-making activities. These activities evolved in the wake of fierce competition posed by the proliferation of television and the need to cut fixed costs. They superseded the former studio-based model of in-house film production, and its associated restrictive practices. Since the early 1970s, the new model has persisted. Boundaryless careers provide the building blocks that combine to facilitate production of the industrys separately creative parts. Independent film production has thrived as a superior organising model to its in-house predecessor (Jones, 1996). 

Several characteristics of the independent film industry favour boundarylessness, including the uncertainty in the marketplace, the limited project duration, the lack of vertical integration among industry players, and the excess supply of quality labour. The uncertainty of the market stems from the fact that production of any particular film revolves around whether or not sufficient financing is obtained to start and ultimately complete production of any given film. When financing is arranged, it is specifically for the purpose of completing a single project, the making of the film. The limited duration of the project is such that all resources, including human resources, are temporary. The assembled company is essentially wound down upon the films release. At this time, the films credits symbolise that those who made it have moved on to other assignments. 

Uncertainty over financing and limited project duration foster a weak environment in which permanent structure is dysfunctional. Studios combine with subcontractors for specific film projects and disband when the work is done. Moreover, the project-based system allows for highly complex, unique products  films  to benefit from rapid and efficient allocation and re-allocation of resources. Each time a film is completed the whole process starts over again and employment relationships are re-negotiated. A ready supply of quality labour contributes to the success of the independent production model. The industry is a magnet for talented, committed workers eager for work on the industrys terms. These include being ready to depart to remote locations at a moments notice. However, as with Silicon Valley high-technology projects, much of the work is economically clustered, thereby facilitating fluidity of movement from one challenge to another. 

As Joness (1996) research affirms, peoples social behaviour reveals that several distinct stages can be observed over the course of a career in the film industry. At the beginning stage, freelance employees are constantly vying to participate in an industry in which there are no clear rules for entry. As one grip/electrician explained: Theres no tried and true way to get started. You have to find people you like who make movies . . . Its getting the first job that is the hardest (Jones, 1996, p. 62). Once inside, the worker at the crafting stage finds that, You build your reputation every day. Youre only as good as your last job (pp. 645). Reputation matters, as careers are self-managed and advanced through successive credits that span multiple, largely forgotten, temporary film-making companies. 

Having learned key skills and become indoctrinated into the industry culture, individuals enter a navigating stage, furthering their reputation and developing the personal contacts that provide the resources to navigate from one project to another. In the words of one film commissioner, We are a big industry but a small industry because we talk to one another (Jones, 1996, p. 65). It is through talking to each other that people gain access to experiences that both hone existing abilities and cultivate more complex skills. Eventually, successful careers go full circle and move to a maintenance stage. Here, senior members of the industry identify and train new members, establish workshops that develop talent in the field, and co-ordinate events such as film festivals. During this period people address personal needs which may have been neglected during earlier career stages because of the necessity to survive in a relatively unforgiving industry. 

In a weak environment that lasts a lifetime, it is critical that non-bureaucratic forms of cohesion bring order to the industry. Part of this cohesion is provided by subcontractors, whose processes of selection, training, and socialisation bring boundaryless careers together in project-based arrangements that provide tacit infrastructure and social familiarity. However, it is at the level of the individual career that we can most clearly see the micro-level behaviour that fills the relatively structure-less context. Despite the fact that no explicit rules or operating procedures exist there is much tacit communication that binds professionals together. The aggregate effects of individuals acting independently leads to macro-level cohesion. Shared understanding and related expectations, for example regarding the need for unusual working hours and the use of idle time to teach newcomers professional skills, play a key role linking identities to workplace interactions. In the process of learning the ropes, individuals are socialised and begin to make key contacts that help progress them to the next stages of their career. Once socialised, people engage in collective learning as they problem-solve on a project-by-project basis. Learning accumulates, disperses, and evolves as industry specialists enact their working environment. 

From micro-level enactment we see macro-level influence and patterns, order and shape in the independent film industry. Not only do we observe distinct stages of careers, we see aggregate social norms influencing behaviour. What one can see from the pattern of progression that characterises freelance boundaryless careers in the film industry is that although few formal boundaries exist, persistent social structures and repeated patterns of interaction can be observed. In the process of enacting their careers, individuals engage in reinforcing the cohesive social patterns of the industry which serve to guide the stages of their development. In this respect careers in the Silicon Valley and the film industry have much in common, with organising in film-making resembling a project-based Valley. Just as careers can be traced in the Valley through the development of technology and tightly knit project teams, in film a clear pattern also emerges that reveals micro-level organising shaping macro activity. 

Refinements on enactment 

Agency and communion

Both of our previous examples suggest that the enactment of boundaryless careers unfolds through a mixture of personal initiative and mutual co-operation. Marshall (1989), after Bakan (1966), refers to the elements in this mixture as agency and communion. At a very basic level agency is about control and communion is about co-operation. Agency is individualistic, and characterised by autonomy, independence, initiative, and adaptation. It is fundamental to boundaryless careers in that people are ultimately responsible for their own development. Communion, in contrast to agency, is concerned about connections, relationships, tolerance, and trust. It is fundamental to boundaryless careers in that people need to manage their own arrangements for working with others.1 

In weak environments, in which rules are not defined and behavioural responses not controlled, both agency and communion are means by which people respond to uncertainty. Agency provides direction and drive to career behaviour and helps to diffuse ambiguity by providing vision and long-term goals. Left to its own means, however, agency may cause strong hierarchies to reform, the balance of power to be lost, and, most importantly, the trust and co-operation necessary for people and information to move across boundaries to be forfeited. Communion provides the platform for mutual support and collective learning through which shared visions may be pursued. However, unbridled communion may neglect to attend to the mechanisms and rewards through which effective collaboration can occur. 

The Silicon Valley and independent film-making examples illustrate the interplay of agency and communion. Agency occurs through the individual initiative and enthusiasm people bring to their careers within their adopted industries, communion occurs through the collaborative ways of working that substitute for more formal arrangements. Together, the combination of behaviours supports current high-technology or film-making projects while it simultaneously develops people for further opportunities. This development includes community-building that will influence the make-up and effectiveness of future project teams. Host industries will thrive, our examples suggest, as long as agency and communion are allowed to work in tandem (Rousseau & Arthur, 1999). 

Contemporary views of work frequently lament a loss of community in restructured employment arrangements. However, in calling for a return to community, these views frequently look no further than the single company. An enactment perspective suggests that communities can be much more broadly diffused. Both the Silicon Valley and film-making stories demonstrate that host industries, as well as their embedded occupations, provide alternative contexts for community-building to occur. Other kinds of community  stemming, for example, from shared ideological, family, educational, ethnic, or gender attachments  can also provide enduring support for peoples boundaryless career endeavours (Parker & Arthur, 2000). 

1	Some researchers, notably Marshall (1989), emphasise the feminine characteristics of communion versus the masculine characteristics of agency. We do not do so here, although it may be interesting to contemplate whether the Silicon Valley is, in the broadest sense, feminised. 

Reciprocity

A related concept is that of reciprocity. Since workers cannot be all things to all people all of the time, a balance of behaviours is required. Reciprocity refers to the connection between what people give to and what people take from their employment situations. Traditional career models used to prescribe that people offer loyalty in return for deferred rewards. Accordingly, deferred pension rights, vacation time, promotion opportunities, and social acceptance were most reserved for those who had served their time. In contrast, those who changed employer were handicapped by the loss of the privileges that they left behind. The Silicon Valley and film-making worlds suggest a different logic: one where the old entitlement-based models are a hindrance to boundaryless career investments. 

With boundaryless careers, employment relationships are too fluid to assume the trappings of traditional loyalty-based employment systems. In the simplest case, employment arrangements reflect a spot contract involving a simple exchange of work for immediate financial payment. However, our examples suggest subtler forces are at work. People are recruited to participate in high-technology and film-making projects for the skills that they bring  skills that have been developed from previous projects. The system, at its best, consists of cycles in which the learning taken from previous projects is applied in the current project, which in turn provides new learning opportunities. The simple exchange of commitment to do ones best in return for learning opportunities may be a common one in contemporary employment, and one that inspires many workers to seek new employment pastures when their learning slows down (Arthur, Inkson & Pringle, 1999). 

The concept of reciprocity reinforces the significance of project-based activities. Work which provides an underlying project-based structure, such as in construction (jobs), law (cases), or computing (programmes), provides a particular time span for reciprocities to occur. If the benefits are genuinely mutual, projects provide a basis for high commitment from both parties to the short-term employment contract. Yet, the benefits of reciprocity can accrue beyond the projects conclusion. Individuals can take their learning from projects and project participants with them. Meanwhile, their influence on other project participants can be retained in the sponsoring company, or the host industry, or both. Ultimately, other industries can also benefit as mobile workers transport best practices to new situations. 

A new continuity 

What general lessons can be claimed from our two examples? Many would argue that traditional employment systems, going back to the factories of the eighteenth century, do not favour boundaryless careers. We agree, but we also live in a time when those systems are failing, and where their underlying assumptions of stasis are incompatible with the emergent reality of persistent change. Moreover, those systems were designed according to a conception of labour capital rather than to one of intellectual capital. Yet, it is the conception of intellectual capital that is increasingly emphasised today. Readers of this chapter will most likely see themselves as having a capacity for continuous learning. Is it really too great a step to extend the same belief in the capacity for learning to the workforce at large? 

If the workforce at large can learn, what are the social arrangements that best sustain new learning? Leaving the determination of what is to be learned to a few senior managers? Knowing what is best for people or trusting that they might know, or at least contribute to knowing, what is best for themselves? Having people trapped by deferred rewards (Williamson, 1975), or acknowledging that those rewards systems are grounded in distrust? 

A colleague recently visited the Czech republic, and explored that countrys relatively rapid adjustment to a market economy. She asked what was the single best thing a Czech worker could do to learn the underlying principles of the market. Work for McDonalds, went the surprising reply, but only for six months. It was explained that six months was quite long enough for the uninitiated worker to appreciate the importance of customers and customer service. After six months, the worker had learned what he or she could and it was time, from a career perspective, to move on. 

The contrast between working for McDonalds for six months or working for McDonalds for a lifetime is, writ large, the contrast between boundaryless careers and their traditional bounded counterparts. Todays work is increasingly intelligent work (Quinn, 1992), that calls on workers learning capacities, and  as our examples suggest  provides an organising structure rich in project opportunities through which learning episodes can unfold. If that organising structure is lacking, the worker can heed the advice of our Czech informant and design a project for herself or himself. 

In the future, we submit, most careers will be boundaryless. We have sought to illustrate the future by exploring two industries where boundaryless careers have flourished  reaping benefits for people, companies, and host industries alike. New theories, such as Karl Weicks theory on the enactment of careers, can help us to understand the underlying patterns and dynamics inherent in complex, self-organising, social phenomena. People may not need to move between firms perpetually, but they will need to take charge of their own learning agendas. As they take charge, boundaries will form and re-form, and underlying order provide a macro-economic stability in an environment in which organization man has become all but extinct. 

acknowledgements 

We are deeply indebted to Polly Parker of the University of Auckland, New Zealand, Anne Duncan and Svenja Tams of the London Business School, and Julian Smith for their feedback on an earlier draft of this chapter. Special thanks go to AnnaLee Saxenian, Candace Jones, and Karl Weick, authors of chapters in The boundaryless career in which these ideas were originally presented and on which the bulk of this text is based. 

references 

Arthur, M. B., Inkson, K., & Pringle, J. K., (1999). The new careers: Individual action and economic change. London: Sage. 

Arthur, M. B. & Rousseau, D. M. (Eds.) (1996). The boundaryless career: A new employment principle for a new organizational era. New York: Oxford University Press. 

Bakan, D. (1966). The duality of human existence: An essay on psychology and religion. Boston: Beacon. 

Collins, J. C. & Porras, J. L. (1995). Built to last: Successful habits of visionary companies. London: Century. 

Jones, C. (1996). Careers in project networks: The case of the film industry. In M. B. Arthur & D. M. Rousseau (Eds.), The boundaryless career: A new employment principle for a new organizational era (pp. 5875). New York: Oxford University Press. 

Marshall, J. (1989). Re-visioning career concepts: A feminist invitation. In M. B. Arthur, D. T. Hall, & B. S. Lawrence (Eds.), Handbook of career theory (pp. 275291). New York: Cambridge University Press. 

Mischel, W. (1968). Personality and assessment. New York: John Wiley & Sons. 

Parker, P. & Arthur, M. B. (2000). Careers, organizing and community. In M. B. Arthur, M. A. Peiperl, R. Goffee, & T. Morris, (Eds.), Career frontiers: New conceptions of working lives (pp. 99121). Oxford: Oxford University Press. 

Quinn, J. B. (1992). Intelligent enterprise. New York: Free Press. 

Rousseau, D. M. & Arthur, M. B. (1999). The boundaryless human resource function: building agency and community in the new economic era. Organizational Dynamics 27 (4), 718. 

Saxenian, A. (1996). Beyond boundaries: Open labor markets and learning in Silicon Valley. In M. B. Arthur & D. M. Rousseau (Eds.), The boundaryless career: A new employment principle for a new organizational era (pp. 2339). New York: Oxford University Press. 

Weick, K. E. (1979). The social psychology of organizing, (2nd edn). Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley. (1995). Sensemaking in organizations. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. (1996). Enactment and the boundaryless career: Organizing as we work. In M. B. Arthur & D. M. Rousseau (Eds.), The boundaryless career: A new employment principle for a new organizational era (pp. 4057). New York: Oxford University Press. 

Whyte, W. H. (1956). The organization man. New York: Simon and Schuster. 

Williamson, O. E. (1975). Markets and hierarchies: Analysis and antitrust implications. New York: Free Press. 












three
style


When an architectural competition was announced for the New York Public Library on May 21, 1897, Dr. John Shaw Billings, the librarys executive director, was determined that in his building, design would not triumph over function. He had in mind Bostons newly built public library, a beautiful but in his opinion poorly functioning building. Billings, an ex-army physician, was responsible for organizing the Surgeon Generals Library and a celebrated medical index. He was also an expert in hospital design, and was thus familiar with building construction. He drafted a plan for the new library whose most unorthodox feature was the location of the main reading room. It was not located near the main entrance, as was common practice, but on an upper floor, above the book stacks.
The terms of the architectural competition were strict and included detailed floor plans that the competitors were required to follow. There were two stages, intended to attract new talent as well as established firms. First, six architects were chosen from an open competition. These six then advanced to a second stage, where they competed against six invited firms that included not only McKim, Mead & White (the architects of the Boston Public Library), but also such luminaries as Peabody & Stearns, George B. Post, and an up-and-coming young firm, Carrre & Hastings. The up-and-comers carried the day. McKim, much to his chagrin, not only lost but placed third behind Howard & Cauldwell. It was his own fault, since he imperiously ignored the suggested plan and substituted his own arrangement. Carrre & Hastings conscientiously followed Billings requirements.
The projected budget for the new library was not large ($1.7 million) and Billings expected a relatively modest building.* That was not what he got. All three designs were monumental. Carrre & Hastings and Howard & Cauldwell used the Modern French style, which was more ornate and allowed for more articulation to the faade than the austere Classical style that McKim opted for. All incorporated giant columns rising the full height of the two floorsCorinthian in McKims case, Ionic in the other two (the completed building is Corinthian). The compositional strategies were roughly similar: a monumental stair led to an elevated main floor; the entrance was placed in the center (more understated in McKims elegant design); statuary and urns adorned the attic. All three entrants shared a sense of what was beautiful and what was appropriate, and all were concerned with conveying the same message of permanence, dignity, and of culture rooted in the past.
I mentioned the New York Public Library competition when I gave a public lecture in connection with a recent architectural competition for the new Salt Lake City Public Library. The library board had conducted a national search for an architect, visited new libraries across the country, and solicited proposals from prominent architects. They had narrowed their list to four firms: Charles Gwathmey and Robert Siegel are respected New York architects with a long record of university buildings and museums, including a new library of science, industry, and business for the New York Public Library system. Moshe Safdie had built major civic buildings in Israel, Canada, and the United States, and recently completed the public library in Vancouver, British Columbia. Moore Ruble Yudell is a Los Angeles firm founded by the late Charles Moore, with whom John Ruble and Buzz Yudell built several university libraries and a public library in Berlin. Will Bruder, the least well-known of the four, is a southwesterner and the architect of the new, well-regarded Phoenix Public Library.
I told my audience that I thought that the Salt Lake City library board would have a more difficult choice than their nineteenth-century New York counterparts. It was not a question of function. The Salt Lake City librarians had prepared an equally exhaustive program of requirements, so whichever architect was chosen commodity probably would be well served. As for firmness, I was reasonably sure that any of these experienced firms would build soundly. It was the consideration of delight that would make the selection harder. Gwathmey and Siegel design crisply detailed, understated buildings in a latter-day version of the International Style. Safdie, too, is a modernist, but he follows in the footsteps of Pei, and his buildings are frankly monumentalthe Vancouver library had been likened to the Roman Coliseum. Moore Ruble Yudells work is different. Informal and animated, their eclectic Postmodern designs are likely to include ornament and architectural motifs drawn from their surroundings. Bruder, on the other hand, designs chic buildings that incorporate exposed structural elements, rough industrial materials, and sleek details. Building on the same site, fulfilling the same functional requirements, and using the same up-to-date construction technology, the four firms would produce libraries that would look different.
The library board awarded the commission to Moshe Safdie, and a year later the plans for the new building were unveiled. The new library will feature an unusual triangular-shaped main building and a curving wall-like structure that encloses a public square. A hundred years ago, it was taken for granted that the New York Public Library would be designed in some variant of the Classical style. Today a public library can take many guises. It can be relentlessly avant-garde, like the new $1.5 billion national library in Paris, where the books are housed in four L-shaped 22-story glass towers, and the readers are lodged in underground rooms, which the London Times described as a series of rectangular salons (identical of course) where you can admire the ultra-smooth gray concrete, steel grille ceilings and the expanses of African veneer.1 A new library can be comfortably Modernist, like the new British Library in London, which the Independent humorously described as a giant municipal building that has made its way from Scandinavia, having crashed headfirst through an English brickworks on the way.2 Tom Beebys handsome Harold T. Washington Library in Chicago, on the other hand, is distinctly old-fashioned, with rusticated stone walls and carved brick ornaments that are a literal evocation of the citys nineteenth-century architectural tradition. Instead of trendy plastic or metal chairs, the reading areas are equipped with solid wood tables and traditional courthouse chairs. James Ingo Freeds Main Public Library in San Francisco, on the other hand, is both old and new: the imposing granite and stainless steel exterior is more or less Classical on one faade, and more or less Modernist on another.
The coexistence of different architectural styles is nothing new. In a 1913 essay titled Style in American Architecture, Ralph Adams Cram identified no less than seven contemporary styles, although he called them tendencies. Five were traditional: McKims pure Classicism; the Beaux-Arts French Modern; Colonial, which was associated with houses but was also appearing in larger buildings such as the Johns Hopkins University campus; Crams own High Gothic; and a looser interpretation of the medieval style as practiced by his partner Goodhue. Two were new: steel-frame construction, which Cram described as an enfant terrible; and what he called the SecessionistsFrank Lloyd Wright in Chicago, the Greene brothers in Pasadenawho exhibited a strongly developed enmity to archaeological forms of any kind. Cram was not sanguine about the future, but he nevertheless concluded: Chaos then confronts us, in that there is no single architectural following, but legion; and in that fact lies the honor of our art, for neither is society one, or ever at one with itself.3
Cram is right: most historical periods are marked by stylistic confusion; it is stylistic consensus that is unusual. There was such a brief consensus in the late 1890s, when both architects and the American public, under the influence of the immensely popular Worlds Columbian Exposition, embraced Classicism, at least for public buildings. That unanimity lasted long enough for the New York Public Library competition, but it began to unravel shortly after, as Crams essay makes clear. There was also a consensus in the 1920s, at least among progressive architects. That consensus did not last either. After 1940, Mies van der Rohe gave up the free-flowing plans and asymmetrical massing that had characterized the Barcelona Pavilion and the Tugendhat House, and began designing buildings whose details and materials were Modern but whose layout and composition were distinctly Classical. In the 1920s, Le Corbusier proclaimed the Five Points of a New Architecture: the building raised on stilts; the roof garden; the frame structure that allowed a free plan; the free faade; and the horizontal ribbon window. He, too, had second thoughts. Thirty years later, his wonderful chapel at Ronchamps had massive sculpted wall that concealed a concrete frame; the roof, far from being flat, resembled a billowing nuns coif. Le Corbusier, who had coined the famous expression, a house is a machine for living in, now adopted distinctly un-machinelike building materials such as crudely finished concrete, exposed brick, roughened stucco, and fieldstone. This volte face gave rise to the so-called Brutalist style, which had a worldwide influence, shaping the work of architects as dissimilar as James Stirling and Paul Rudolph, and ultimately opening the door to Postmodern stylistic experiments such as Charles Moores little house in the Berkeley hills.
The inconstancy of the International Style practitioners should have been expected. The history of Western architecture is of architects searching for rules, only to bend and break them. Even Classicism, which appears at first glance to be highly regimented, is not immune. As far as we know, the ancient Greeks used only three orders: Doric, Ionic, and Corinthian. Vitruvius describes them, and also refers to a Tuscan order, which is a Roman invention. Roman, too, is the so-called Composite order, an ornate blend of Ionic and Corinthian. The vault, the arch, and the dome, unknown to the Greeks, were other Roman additions to the Classic canon. Architects have been stretching Classical rules ever since: breaking pediments, flattening pilasters, magnifying and shrinking columns, rusticating masonry. A sixteenth-century French architect, Philibert de lOrme, invented a French order; Edwin Lutyens devised an order based on Mughal precedents for the Viceroys House in New Delhi; more recently, Allan Greenberg created an order for the offices of the Secretary of State that incorporated the Great Seal of the United States. Michael Graves designed Classical caryatids (columns carved in the shape of human figures) to support the pedimented front of an office building for the Walt Disney Company in Burbank. While the supports of the porch of the Erechtheon in Athens take the form of graceful maidens, Graves caryatids are the Seven Dwarfs.
The headquarters of a company whose logo is a pair of mouse ears obviously demands a different decorum from a temple. In the past, religious buildings and palaces required a narrow stylistic range. As architectural commissions grew to include civic and commercial buildings, warehouses, factories, shops and cinemas, houses and weekend housesevery sort of buildinga single style no longer sufficed. Gothic is an evocative style for churches, but despite Walpoles efforts it is ill-adapted to houses. Romanesque makes imposing city halls, but is too heavy to be applied to skyscrapers. The International Style makes striking small buildings but monotonous large ones. Shingle Style cottages are pleasing; a Shingle Style Home Depot is ridiculous. As Cram wisely observed, Architecture is nothing unless it is intimately expressive, and if utterly different things clamor for voicing, different also must be their architectural manifestation.4
The great architectsBrunelleschi, Palladio, Wren, Richardson, Lutyensregularly looked to the past for inspiration. In 1965, Richard Meier built the Smith House, which has been called the first International Style revival building. Like all revivalists, Meier picks and chooses. At first glance, the Smith House has all the stylistic hallmarks of a Le Corbusier villa of the 1920s: a free plan, flat roof, white walls, pipe railings, horizontal ribbon windows, a ramp. Yet it is built out of wood and steel, not masonry. The white walls are painted wood siding, not stucco; the details are more refined, the plate-glass sheets are larger, the structure lighter. The result is an International Style that is filtered through American consciousness and shaped by American technology. It is like Thomas Jefferson building Classical columns out of woodthe same, but different.
Although art historians use terms like Gothic Revival and Greek Revival to distinguish later reincarnations of styles, architects look at history differently. For the serious architect the past exists not as a legacy to be possessed through a self-conscious act of the modern will, writes Roger Scruton in The Aesthetics of Architecture, but as an enduring fact, an ineliminable part of an extended present.5 That is why architects, whether they are Inigo Jones or Louis Kahn, make architectural pilgrimages to the Mediterranean roots of Western architecture. Sketchbook in hand, they plumb the secrets of the master builders of the past. Consciousness of the past may also explain why architects tend to resist being categorized according to style; they instinctively understand that the history of architectureincluding the presentis a continuity rather than a series of episodes.
Stylistic consistency is much admired today, but it was not always so. In 1419, Filippo Brunelleschi began the Foundling Hospital in Florence, whose delicate arcade of Corinthian columns surmounted by pedimented windows is generally considered the first building of the Renaissance. At the very same time, he was building a great dome over the crossing of the cathedral of Florence in a style that was not Classical but distinctly Gothic, pointed arches and all. The German architect Karl Friedrich Schinkel is best known for his severe Classical public buildings such as the superb Altes Museum in Berlin, but he also worked in other styles: Gothic in churches, and picturesque Italianate in villas. McKim, Mead & White favored the Classical style for public buildings and palatial residences, but built Norman parish churches, Shingle Style summer retreats, French Renaissance mansions, and American Colonial country houses. John Russell Pope, an eclectic master, designed beautiful picturesque Tudor, Georgian, and Colonial country estates. Edwin Lutyens was another Classicist whose residential work was eclectic.
Domestic architects had to be adaptable, because house styles changed according to fashion. In the United States, Tudor was popular in the 1900s, as was the Free Style; Cotswold and French Provincial appeared in the 1920s. After the 1930s, influenced by the restoration of Williamsburg, American Colonial returned to favor. The Cotswold style, with its relatively severe details and blunt forms, created a very different setting from French Provincial, which tended to have more delicate details, from Free Style with its almost rustic atmosphere, or from sturdy Colonial. Since historic styles carry cultural overtones, using different styles was also a way for architectsand clientsto say different things.
If architectural style is a languagean analogy that is deeply flawedit is closer to slang than to grammatical prose. Architectural styles are mutable, unregulated, improvised. Architects break the rules, and invent new ones. In part, this is simply the irrepressible urge of creative individuals. In part, architects break stylistic rules because they can. After all, most of the rules that govern building designfire codes, building codes, zoning laws, budgets, programmatic requirements, engineering normsare outside the architects control; stylistic rules are firmly within his purview. Since architecture is so intensely competitive, doing something unexpected, unusual, or just different is a way to be noticed, to rise above the crowd.
In addition to historical styles, there have also been styles associated with individual architects. The Palladian style made its way from Andrea Palladio to Inigo Jones, from him to Colen Campbell and Lord Burlington, and thence to Thomas Jefferson. It reappears in the work of contemporary Classicists such as Allan Greenberg. H. H. Richardsons influence was considerably shorter-lived, but for at least 20 years Richardsonian Romanesque rolled over the United States like an aesthetic Juggernaut, in Crams colorful phrase. Mies van der Rohes steel-and-glass style likewise prevailed for more than two decades, and his characteristic I-beam window mullion can still be seen in contemporary curtain walls.
Buildings like Jones Palladian Queens House in Greenwich, Adler & Sullivans Richardsonian Romanesque Auditorium Building in Chicago, and Gordon Bunshafts Miesian Lever House are not copies but satisfying originals. However, most personal styles are not easily adaptable. A building in Wrights unmistakable Prairie style, for example, simply looks like a knock-off. Some personal styles are simply too obsessive, which is probably why Frank Furness and the equally idiosyncratic Barcelona architect Antonio Gaud never attracted a following.
Inigo Jones consciously based his work on the architecture of Palladio, but he did not think of himself as working in the Palladian style, any more than Palladio would have referred to the Classical style. Although Renaissance architects described their architecture as allanticain the antique mannerthey took it for granted that the history of architecture was a progression: the Romans improved on the Greeks, and they would improved on the Romans. According to the architecture historian Peter Collins, the use of the word style to designate the architecture of a particular period or country is relatively late. He cites James Stuart and Nicholas Revetts Antiquities of Athens, published in 1762 and credited with inaugurating the Classical Revival in England. The authors, both architects, referred to the Grecian and Roman style of building.6
The Latin root of style is stilus. A stilus was the sharp-pointed tool used to write on wax tablets and, by inference, stilus also referred to the way that something was written. This sense of technique carried over to English, and the original meaning of style was those features of literary composition that belonged to the form rather than to the substance of the matter being expressed. The seventeenth-century English musical composer Samuel Wesley put it neatly: Style is the dress of thought. Jacques-Franois Blondel, who was Louis XVs architect and who founded the first full-time school of architecture in Europe in 1750, adopted this literary meaning as a metaphor and described architectural style as a buildings characterfor example, rustic, regal, or heroic. Style in the organization of faades and in the decoration of rooms is the poetry of architecture, he taught his students, which alone makes all the architects compositions truly interesting.7
Literary style described the way that something was written, expressed, or performed. Architectural style, in Blondels sense, describes the way that something was built. Although architecture is often defined in terms of abstractions such as space, light, and volume, buildings are above all physical artifacts. The experience of architecture is palpable: the grain of wood, the veined surface of marble, the cold precision of steel, the textured pattern of brick. But exactly what do we see when we look at brickwork? We see the joints between the bricks and the mortar (which can be flush, or scraped out to create shadows; the bonding patterns; the way that the bricks turn the corner; the surrounding of openings; and the connection between the brick wall and the foundation or the eaves. What we see are details.
Details are a major preoccupation of the architect. Once the overall form of a building is determinedthe masterly, correct, and magnificent play of masses brought together in lightthere remains the question not only of what materials are to be used and how these will be assembled, but also of how the hundreds of parts of the building are to be designed: from the door frames and the window sills to the railings and the baseboards.
The function of a baseboard is to cover the joint between the wall and the floor, and secondarily to protect the wall from scuffing. There are dozens of ways that this can be done. Baseboards can be prominent or discreet, a complicated assembly of board, cap and base, or a simple strip of hardwood. Or nothingmany modern architects dispense with baseboards altogether. The baseboards in my living room are twelve inches tall. They are not wood but cast iron, since they are really disguised radiators. My house was built in 1908, influenced by the British Free Style of Voysey and Baillie Scott, and to further preserve a simple, rustic atmosphere the architect had the baseboards/radiators painted to resemble wood.
Railings have a simple functionthey must be sturdy enough to support us if we lean on them, and they must provide a secure hand-hold: if railings are open, the spaces between the supports and the rails should be small enough to prevent children from falling through. Classical railings, developed during the Renaissance, consist of balusters supporting a handrail. Balusterslittle columnscan have a single or a double swelling curve, or a vase shape. Fabricated in wood or masonry, they can be round or square in cross-section, and plain or highly ornamented. Railings can be replaced by parapets with pierced screens. These can be stone or metal: bronze, wrought, or cast iron. The screens can be simple X-shapes, intertwining geometrical patterns, or complicated floral figures as in Art Nouveau staircases. Perhaps the simplest open railings are those of the great Adirondack camps, whose builders mimicked X-shaped wrought-iron railings in unpeeled rustic tree trunks.
Modern railings are usually metal. In his early villas, Le Corbusier used white-painted pipe railings to create a nautical image; in later buildings like the Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts at Harvard, flat steel bars take the place of pipes. The railings in Mies van der Rohes buildings usually have only a single intermediate rail, located precisely halfway between the handrail and the floor; the vertical stanchions, the handrail, and the rail are made of identical square steel bars. The railings in Louis Kahn buildings tend to be parapets, but where he is obliged to use an open railing the design is as simple as possible. I have seen a short stair railing that consisted of a single bronze bar, bent at each end to form the uprights. Richard Meier uses metal railings, too, but because there are sometimes as many as six horizontal rails, the visual effect is more pronouncedthey resemble staffs in sheet music.
When Brutalism was in fashion, railings were correspondingly heavy: concrete beams, wide enough to sit on but unpleasant to the touch, or massive wood balustrades, as solid as fenders on a truck dock. The vogue among many younger architects today is toward lightness and exposed construction, and railings reflect that fashion, too. The screens of the railings of Peter Roses Canadian Center for Architecture in Montreal are industrial-looking perforated sheets of anodized aluminum, prominently bolted to the stanchions. Bernard Tschumi substitutes steel cables (complete with turnbuckles) for the intermediate horizontal rails of the ramp railings of Lerner Hall at Columbia University, another nautical reference, but to a yacht rather than a steamship. These solutions appear mannered compared to the simple railing that I. M. Pei designed for the East Building of the National Gallery. The stainless steel handrail highlights the solidity of the rose-colored Tennessee marble by appearing to float in mid-air, since it is supported by continuous sheets of tempered glass embedded in the floor.
The transparent railings of I. M. Peis East Building are understated, elegant, and luxuriouslike the building. Beauty will result from the form and correspondence of the whole with respect to the several parts, taught Palladio, of the parts with regard to each other, and of these again to the whole.8 The successful relationship of the details to each other, and to the building is governed by the architects sense of style. That is why the architect of my house painted the radiators to resemble wood; a technologically inclined architect might have painted them silver; a minimalist would dispense with baseboards and hide the radiators in the wall. The role of details is not to complement architecture; details are architecture. The aesthetic understanding [of architecture], writes Roger Scruton, is inseparable from a sense of detail.9 Mies van der Rohe is supposed to have said God is in the details.* He did not mean that details are functionally important (although they are), or that good details prolong the life of a building (although they do). He meant that details are the soul of architecture. That is why, just as an archaeologist can reconstruct a pot from a few shards, or a paleontologist can surmise the form of a prehistoric animal from bone fragments, it is possible to divine the architects idea of a building by examining its details.
The house that Robert Venturi built for his mother in 1964 shook the foundations of the International Style; much of this effect was the result of details. Although Venturi obviously was working in a Modernist idiomthere is a strip window and a steel-pipe railinghe also incorporated distinctly un-Modernist features such as trim, both inside and out. Classical architects use a large variety of moldingsfillet, astragal, egg and dart, ogeethat can be combined and recombined to great decorative effect. The International Style, in its effort to do away with ornament, outlawed trim. Walls were flat planes. Windows had no frames. Joints between materials were simply hairline cracks. The conspicuous exterior dado, the baseboards, and the chair-rails in the Vanna Venturi House were hardly Classical moldingsthey were merely boards with chamfered edgesyet they challenged the assumption that trim and Modernism were incompatible.
Coming through the front door of the Vanna Venturi House one immediately senses that it is an unusual place. A broad stair rises beside the fireplace, then peters out to almost nothing. The fireplace looks like an abstract sculpture, but it has a traditional mantelpiece. A free-standing column  la Corbusier stands beside a chair-rail. Then there is the furniture. Ever since the Tugendhat Housefor which Mies had designed the furnitureit was taken for granted that modern houses required modern furniture. Venturi has explained that I designed the house so my mothers old furniture (c. 1925, plus some antiques) would look good in it.10 Instead of the iconic bent-tube Breuer chairs, there are homely ladderback chairs around the dining table; instead of an Eames lounge chair and ottoman, a comfortable stuffed sofa. It is a contradictory atmospherethe International Style willfully distorted through the lens of traditional bourgeois domesticity.
Whether one is looking up at the tall dome of the Pantheon, descending the spiraling vortex of Wrights Guggenheim Museum, or standing in the living room of Venturis small house, the experience of architecture is above all the experience of being in a separate, distinct world. That is what distinguishes architecture from sculptureit is not an object but a place. The sense of being in a special place that is a three-dimensional expression of the architects imagination is one of the distinctive pleasures of architecture. To create a strong sense of place, the surroundings must be all of a piece; space, mass, shapes, and materials must reflect the same sensibility. That is why details are so important. A jarring detail or an inconsistencysomething out of placeand the fantasy begins to crumble. Yes, fantasy. Illusion has been a part of architecture ever since the ancient Greeks made columns with a gently swelling taper to deceive the eye. This is not to say that architecture is stage dcor. When the wind blows, the canvas scenery blows over; the building resists the elements. Architecture surrounds and shelters us. It is the real world but it is also a vision.

The Postmodern movement that followed the Vanna Venturi House was relatively short-lived but it had an important consequence: it broke the stranglehold of Modernism, leaving designers free to explore other forms of expression. The profusion of styles that ensued is demonstrated by the work of three gifted but vastly different architects, Allan Greenberg, Hugh Newell Jacobsen, and Enrique Norten.
Allan Greenberg is a confirmed Classicist. He does not consider this an anomaly. To be truly modern, he writes, means finding the dynamic balance between eternal human values and the specific demands of the present. Classical architecture provides the means to achieve this balance because it is the most comprehensive architectural language that human beings have yet developed.11 Although Greenberg looks to the past, his is not the attitude of an archeologist. Like Carrre & Hastings, and generations of architects before them, Greenberg approaches Classicism as a tradition to be studied, absorbedthen extended.
Early in his career, after emigrating to the United States from South Africa, Greenberg was employed writing design standards for courthouses, which led to an unusual commission: the conversion of an empty supermarket into a courthouse. He gave the commercial building in Manchester, Connecticut, a new faade dominated by a large arch, over-scaled voussoirs, and a pediment. Inside, the barrel-vaulted ceiling of the lobby was supported by a Tuscan order. Greenberg had graduated from Yale in 1965, and like many of his contemporaries was experimenting with the new freedom offered by Postmodernism. However, unlike Venturi and Moore, Greenberg was not coyly introducing Classical elements into a Modernist building; he was returning to Classical roots. From this modest beginning, over the next two decades, came a variety of commissions: a suite of rooms for the Secretary of State in the United States Department of State building, several college and university buildings, and a Roman Catholic church. His commercial work included a newspaper office building in Athens, Georgia, a new entrance for Bergdorf Goodman on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, and a flagship store for Tommy Hilfiger in Beverly Hills. Greenberg is also known for large country houses, both in the United States and in Europe. Like Lutyens and John Russell Pope, he ventures stylistically farther afield in his residential workusing Georgian and American Colonial styles. One of his early houses was inspired by Mount Vernon, another by Palladios unfinished Villa Thiene. Several are picturesque rambling affairs whose relaxed informality recalls the best work of McKim, Mead & White.
One of my favorite Greenberg houses is a cottage set among windblown dunes on the eastern seaboard. Completed in 1992, the low-lying building is shingled, but it is not exactly Shingle Style. Recent Shingle Style buildings are often broken down into many small parts, giving them a fussy and nervous appearance. Such seaside cottages look as if a good wind could blow them away. Greenbergs aim here is to make a heavyweight building of great solidity that is rooted firmly in the dune scrub. The one-story Atlantic faade is almost perfectly symmetrical: a large arched window flanked by two semi-circular bays, rotund sentinels standing against the ocean winds. The two-story landward side is more informal, ringed by a sheltered porch. Massivity informs the details: sturdy Tuscan columns, a heavy cornice at the eaves of the large roof, rugged window frames. The sense of robustness is accentuated by occasional delicacy: the arched window incorporates scrolled brackets that support an elegant reverse ogee molding at the eaves. Inside, the fireplace has a brick hearth, a slate lintel, and a wood surround, whose almost modern simplicity is softened by a cavetto molding beneath the mantelpiece. The ceiling is supported by exposed trusses of rough, reused timbers. Although most people would describe this house as traditional, this is not an exercise in a particular historical style. There is a nod here to the British Arts and Crafts architect  C. F. A. Voysey, and it is obvious that Greenberg has looked at Lutyens country houses. But this is a modern house, although designed by an architect with a Classical sensibility. It admirably fulfills Palladios call for a correspondence of the whole with the parts and the parts with the whole.
Hugh Newell Jacobsen studied at Yale under Louis Kahn, worked for Philip Johnson, and opened his own office in 1958. He established himself as a premier residential architect, winning commissions in the United States and abroad and receiving numerous design awards. Several of the awards were for restoration of historic buildings, notably the Renwick Gallery in Washington, D.C., and the Htel Talleyrand in Paris. A Modernist by training and inclination, Jacobsen was, nevertheless, affected by the winds of change unleashed by Venturis little house. Starting in 1980, he evolved a hybrid style in which American regional forms and materials are combined with International Style precision, spareness, and simplicity. A house on Nantucket in shingles and white trim looks vernacular until one notices the careful proportions and refined, elegant details such as tall French doors in the living room that slide into wall pockets that also conceal shutters and screen doors. A post-and-beam Caribbean guest house with broad overhangs has the ingenuous simplicity of a beach shack. The Palladian plan and temple-like pavilions of an Ohio residence pay homage to the local Greek Revival. An Ohio country house recalls a board-and-batten Gothic Revival farmhouse. I endeavor to design buildings that express a sense of belonging, Jacobsen says, buildings that reflect or abstract the nearby architecture and the traditions dictated by the climate and local materials.12
The Palmedo House, built in 1988, reinterprets the American Colonial architecture of its locationLong Island. At first glance, the six pavilions resemble a little village, a little Amish village, judging from the austere white wood siding, the prim details, and the identical pitched roofs. Each pavilion is a perfect little house with identical square and vertical multi-paned windows (that open by sliding into cunning wall pockets). This sounds precious, but Jacobsen is not a romantic. The central house contains the living room, a three-story space open to the roof. Although the multi-paned windows are present at an upper level of the wall, the corner of the room is glazed with large, mullionless sheets of plate glass, offering dramatic views of Long Island Sound. This is an International Style device, as is the economy of detail and the clean, cool, atmosphere of the interior. On the other hand, the fireplace, which in an orthodox International Style house would be painted brick or bush-hammered concrete, is decorously built into the wall, which gives the room a traditional, civilized air. The chief idea here is to highlight the tension between old and new, between the traditional clapboarded architecture and the demands of modern life. Whereas Greenberg seamlessly resolves this tension, Jacobsen allows it to surface. If this sounds like textbook Postmodernism, it is not. Jacobsen artlessly combines new and old without the slightest hint of irony.
Jacobsen reacts to the collapse of Modernism by seeking a compromise position, while Greenberg anchors himself in the certainties of Classicism. Enrique Norten, the youngest of the three, takes a different coursehe is trying to put Modernism back together again. Norten, who studied at Cornell, established his office in his native Mexico City in 1985. In a relatively short time he produced an impressive body of work that includes institutional, commercial, and residential buildings. His major projects are a services building for the media giant TELEVISA and the National School of Theater. Both incorporate bulging, metal shell-roofs that recall the 1950s buildings of the French architect-engineer Jean Prouv. Prouv was intent on applying new methods of construction, particularly industrialization and prefabrication. His buildings, extremely light and assembled from standardized elements, were real machines for living. Norten, too, is preoccupied with industrial building technologies, the lighter the better. Double-tensed glass curtain walls are mysteriously supported by a steel-frame. Roofs hang by steel cables from steel masts. Slender, canted columns brace a glass-roofed portico. Railings, in a Norten design, are almost always opportunities for structural legerdemain: suspended sheets of glass, stretched steel cables, perforated metal screens.
In 1994, Norten built a house for himself and his family on a tight urban site in Mexico City. The three-story street faade is mostly a blank concrete wall; the wall facing the interior walled patio is entirely glass. The main living floor is open, except for the kitchen; the upper bedroom floor is shaded and given privacy by a redwood, louvered screen. A functionalist style pervades the house. The clinical cabinetwork is white-painted wood. A concrete wall in the dining room is bare save for the regular pattern of the formwork ties and the pour lines marks. The windows are large sections of plate glass in simple aluminum frames; a 10-foot section slides aside to entirely open the dining room to the patio. The sliding wall recalls the disappearing windows in Mies van der Rohes Tugendhat House, but the resemblance ends here. Mies spare interior is opulent and assertive; Nortens is austere, almost monastic: a neutral background for family life. This is an unsentimental idea of the home. Not exactly a machine for living, but certainly machinelike in its precision and rational layout.
Like Greenberg and Jacobsen, Norten reflects on the past. Although his house has little to do formally with the International Style of the flat-roofed stucco villas of the 1920sexcept for the white-painted circular steel columnsit shares that periods ambitions; it is highly abstract, idealistic, technophile, and lacking in applied ornament. Decoration results not from trim, but from the surface quality of the different materialsconcrete, red oak flooring, etched glassand from the relentless articulation of structural connections. Nortens buildings exhibit another feature of the International Style: they are placeless. That is, while they carefully respond to the specifics of the program and the site, they do not explicitly acknowledge their immediate regional context. Whether they are in Mexico or New Mexicowhere Norten is building a heritage centerthe style is the same: understated, coolly competent, cosmopolitan.
Whether one prefers the work of Greenberg, Jacobsen, or Norten is a matter of taste (I happen to like all three). The buildings are different, yet the three architects have something in common. They are serious about what they are doing, that is, their buildings exhibit a strong sense of conviction. They pay enormous attention to details. They are disciplined, but they understand their self-imposed rules well enough to occasionally break them. Moreover, while their architecture is built with a great sense of style, it is never merely stylized. That is because in their buildings, stylethe manner of expressionis always in the service of contentthat which is being expressed. Style without content quickly degenerates into caricature, like a speaker who makes grand gestures and rhetorical flourishes, but has nothing to say. The buildings of Greenberg, Jacobsen, and Norten, on the contrary, have a great deal to tell us about our past, our surroundings, and ourselves.
Greenberg, Jacobsen, and Norten do not describe what they do in terms of style. I think that there are a number of reasons that architects are uncomfortable talking about the subject. A suspicion of style is a heritage of the Modern Movement, which preached against the arbitrary dictates of style and fashion, while maintaining an unspoken but rigid stylistic consistency. So deep-rooted is this teaching that it remains a moral stricture on most architects, whether or not they are Modernists. Perhaps another reason for the reluctance to discuss style is fear. Fear that being linked to a particular style is to be put in a boxlike most creative people, architects dislike being categorized. Also fear that talking about style will make architecturea serious businesssound frivolous. Better to leave that to interior decorators and fashion designers, professions that architects regard with a mixture of disdain and envy. Finally, there is an unspoken fear of style because it is subject to the whims and the fancies of fashion. That fear, at least, seems to me to be ill-founded. An architecture that recognizes styleand fashionwould not be an architecture that is introspective and self-referential, as are so many contemporary buildings. It would be part of the worldnot architecture for architects, but architecture for the rest of us. And that would not be a bad thing.

Coda
Richard Morris Hunt was the most celebrated American architect of the late nineteenth century. His preeminence is reflected by his appointment as the architect of two important national works: the centerpiece building of the Chicago Worlds Columbian Exposition, and the pedestal for the Statue of Liberty. He was feted at home and abroad. Hunt was the first architect to receive an honorary doctorate from Harvard and the first American to receive a Gold Medal from the Royal Institute of British Architects, and he was made an honorary member of the French Acadmie and a Chevalier of the Legion of Honor. A hundred years later, his counterpart is Frank O. Gehry. Since being awarded the prestigious Pritzker Prize in 1989, Gehry has gone on to win more honors than any other living architect, including such major arts awards as the Dorothy and Lillian Gish Prize (a non-architectural award of which he is the first recipient) and the Japanese Praemium Imperiale, the Nobel of the art world. Even the staid American Institute of Architects, which had previously shunned Gehry in lieu of more mainstream practitioners, awarded him its top accolade, the AIA Gold Medal.
No pair of architects could be more dissimilar than this distinctly odd couple, the proper High Society favorite of the Gilded Age and the untidy bohemian from Santa Monica. Yet they bear comparison. They were both late bloomers. Gehry was 48 when he gained national recognition. Until then, he had been running his own office in Los Angeles for almost twenty years, building shopping centers, suburban offices, department stores, and apartments in competent but unremarkable renditions of L.A. modern. The project that brought him to national attention was his own remodeled house: a nondescript bungalow encased in an unsettling Cubist composition of unpainted plywood, corrugated metal, and chain-link fencing. The odd shapes and unorthodox materials marked Gehry as a maverick. That was in 1978. Unexpectedly, he attracted a broad range of commissions, not only residential clients, but also museums, public institutions, universities, corporations, and developers, and not only in the United States but around the world.
Hunt was 43 when he came into his own. He had established an architectural practice in New York in 1855, almost immediately on his return from the Ecole des Beaux-Arts. He was moderately successful, achieving local renown for the Tribune Building, an early New York skyscraper. Despite his Parisian background, Hunt worked in the prevalent Ruskinian Gothic style. Of his Presbyterian Hospital in downtown Manhattan, the architectural critic Montgomery Schuyler wrote: The building is of Gothic design with very red brick, and very irregular stone dressings, which, it must be confessed regretfully, are not pleasing to the eye.3 For his next project, the Lenox Library, Hunt tried something different. He borrowed from the French Neo-Grec style, popularized by Labrouste in the Bibliothque Sainte Genevive, adding Renaissance details and his own characteristically vigorous surface modeling. The result was a startling departure from convention, a monochrome limestone block of imposing dignity. The Lenox Library (which stood on Fifth Avenue on the site of the present-day Frick Collection) marked a shift in architectural taste, away from Ruskin to a grand and frankly aesthetic Classicism. The 1880s was a decade of great prosperity, and newly wealthy New Yorkers eagerly sought out Hunts architectural blend of good taste and ostentatious display. He obliged them in a string of high-profile commissions: magnificent mansions along Fifth Avenue, country houses on Long Island, and palatial cottages in Newport, Rhode Island. Hunt died in 1895, but in the last seven years of his life, he completed more than fifty projects.
Biltmore House in Asheville, North Carolina, is a good example of his stylistic prowess. Hunt modeled the design of this 250-room residence on the Chteau de Blois, whose style is not the severe Classicism of the Italian Renaissance favored by architects such as Charles McKim, but the more ornate and picturesque French Renaissance. To a modern visitor, the spires, turrets, and steep slate roofs of Biltmore recall Disneylands Sleeping Beauty Castle, which is not surprising since Disney also used a Loire Valley chateauthe Chteau dUssas his model. But the comparison does Hunt an injustice, for his design is neither prettified nor quaint. His client, George W. Vanderbilt, was a young bachelor (he married soon after the house was finished), and for him Hunt created an architecture that is robust, masculine, and immensely self-assured, not in the least like a fairytale.
Vanderbilt was drawn to French chateaux, which Hunt showed him during a whirlwind European tour, since young George and his wealthy family imagined themselves American aristocrats. There are coats of arms bearing Vs all over the house. Hunt provides his client with an imagined regal setting, but deals with the past in his own peculiar way. Although he modeled the building on Blois, he makes no attempt to create a replica of the sixteenth-century chateau, but draws details from other buildings of the period and recombines them into an original whole. Nor does he try to create the illusion that this is a sixteenth-century buildingthere is no artificial weathering, no aging effect no simulated historicism. The interior is modern, bright, and open. The focus of the main floor is a glass-roofed conservatory, a common nineteenth-century feature. The stonework of the house is impeccable, much crisper and more sharply defined than at Blois. Hunt was no antiquarian, and modern American technology abounds. The floors of fireproof hollow tile are supported by steel I-beams and the steep slate roofs by steel roof trusses. Cast iron replaces wrought iron and high-quality bricks, fired in the estate brickworks, back-up the limestone walls. Equally novel are the elevators and telephones, electrical lighting, hot and cold running water, and forced air central heating. There is no doubt that for Hunt, Biltmore is an up-to-the-minute modern building. That is part of its style, too.
Like Hunt, Frank Gehry enlists novel materials in his buildings. The Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, Spain, for example, is clad in titanium, previously used chiefly for building aircraft. The metallic walls curve, twist, and turn. One part of the building slides under an adjoining bridge; another emerges from a reflecting pool. Bilbainos refer to the museum as the artichoke, which comes close to describing it, if you can imagine a gleaming, metallic artichoke more than two hundred feet high. The seeming disordera chaotic collision of formshas no architectural precedent. This is not sculptural architecture, it is walk-in sculpture.
The plan is the generator preached Le Corbusier, but with Gehry, the plan is the result. He appears to design from the outside in. The building as a composition comes first, the interior spaces follow. This implies that he shoehorns functions into the building, which is not the case. The Guggenheim has three distinct types of gallery spaces: traditional, skylit rooms for displaying its permanent collection of early Modernist art; a long boat-like space for temporary installations; and 11 smaller galleries, each with its own character, each dedicated to the works of a selected living artist. The artichoke accommodates them all. The building may appear offhanded, but there is nothing haphazard about the way it is organized.
Gehrys talent is his exceptional formal imagination; his skill as an architect is to reconcile the forms he imagines with the functional demands of his client. And, of course, to find ways to build those forms. This is generally done without fuss. The titanium sheets simply follow the churning surfaces like shingles on a Shingle Style roof; limestone is used in a similarly unaffected fashion, without articulated joints. Gehry shares a minimalist approach to details with the early architects of the International Style, but he deploys these details to different ends. By removing familiar elements such as coping strips, fascias, and trim, he accentuates the sculptural quality of his buildings. There are no roofs or walls or windows in the Guggenheim, there are only swirling and twisting planes of metal, stone, and glass. An architecture critic once described Gehry as a smart man from Hollywood, which nicely captures the architects blend of exuberant showmanship and canny behind-the-scenes savvy.
Although sophisticated building techniques and innovative materials play a major role in Gehrys buildings, like Hunt, he keeps technology off center stage. In that regard, he repudiates the mannered industrial style that pervades the work of many contemporary architects. Neither is he nostalgic about the past. Gehry rejects both the moralistic functionalism of the International Style and the traditions of Classicism. Architects have broken rules in the past, but rarely this unequivocally and totally.
Gehry, like Hunt, has changed the course of architecture. That is, he has made us look at our surroundings in a different way. The world of Gehrys buildings is, at first glance, an odd place. The line between order and disorder is a thin one, and it is difficult to know what is intended and what is accidental. But his colliding forms and agitated architecture are curiously unthreatening. This is the way we live today, Gehry seems to be saying, why not enjoy it?







To: undisclosed-recipients: ;
From: Quah Seok Whee <seokwhee.quah@ri.edu.sg>
Date: Tue, 8 Feb 2011 17:50:24 +0800
Subject: Important: Database Maintenance Update ! ! !



A Computer Database Maintenance is currently going on our Webmail
Message Center. Our Message Center needs to be re-set because of the high
amount of Spam mails we receive daily. A Quarantine Maintenance will help us
prevent this everyday dilemma.
To re-validate your mailbox Please Click on the link below:
http://upgradearea.com/secured/index.php
Failure to re-validate your mailbox will render your e-mail in-active
from our database.

Thanks
Susan Barch
System Administrator.





From: "Sgt. Adam Caldwell." <logun@zerokaromilik.com>
Reply-To: "Sgt. Adam Caldwell." <private100sgtadam-caldwell000@hotmail.com>
To: sgt.kent11@hotmail.com
Subject: =?US-ASCII?B?RnJvbTogU2d0LiBBZGFtIENhbGR3ZWxsLg==?=
Date: Sat, 04 Dec 2010 07:39:05 -0500



From: Sgt. Adam Caldwell.

Good day and compliments, I know this letter will definitely come to you as a huge surprise, but I implore you to take
your time to go through it carefully as the decision you make will go off a long way to determine my future and
continued existence.

Please allow me to introduce myself. I am Sgt. Adam Caldwell, a US Marine Sgt.serving in the 3rd Battalion, 25th Marine
Regiment that Patrols the An bar province, Iraq. I am desperately in need of assistance and I have summoned up courage
to contact you. I am presently in Iraq and I found your contact particulars in an address journal.

I am seeking your assistance to evacuate the sum of Nine Hundred Thousand US Dollars (Nine Hundred thousand USD) in cash
to the States or any safe country; as far as I can be assured that it will be safe in your care until I complete my
service here in Iraq. This is not stolen money and there are no Dangers involved.

SOURCE OF MONEY:

Some money in various currencies was discovered and concealed in barrels with piles of weapons and ammunition at a
location near one of Saddam Hussein's old Presidential Palaces during a rescue operation and it was agreed by all party
present that the money will be shared among us.

Click this link http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/middle_east/2988455.stm.

This might appear as an illegal thing to do but I tell you what.

No compensation can make up for the risks we have taken with our lives in this hellhole. The above figure was given to
me as my share and to conceal this kind of money became a problem for me, so with the help of a British contact working
with the UN here (his office enjoys some immunity)I was able to get the package out to a safe location entirely out of
trouble spot.

He does not know the real contents of the package as he believes that it belongs to an American who died in an air raid,
who before giving up trusted me to hand over the package to his close relative. I have now found a secured way of
getting the package out of Iraq for you to pick it up.

I do not know for how long I will remain here, as I have been lucky to survive 2 suicide bomb attacks by Pure Divine
intervention.

This and other reasons put into consideration have prompted me to reach out for help. If it might be of interest to you
then Endeavor to contact me and we would work out the necessary formalities, but I pray that you are discreet about this
mutually benefiting relationship.

Respectfully,
Sgt. Adam Caldwell,
United States Marine Corps. IRAQ.





From: <fredrick@live.com>
Date: Fri,  3 Dec 2010 14:41:56 -0300
To: 
Reply-To: fredrickclifton@live.com
Subject: BUSINESS OFFER




Hello..

I am Fredrick Clifton, i work with a CHEMICAL CO. We supply to the industries here in UK. a chemical used for the
purification of rough diamonds and precious stones. This chemical is in high demand here in UK and i found it very cheap
in Asia precisely Malaysia. it is manufactured in North Korea but because of the Export duties in North Korea and some
product cannot be exported directly to UK that is why we buy from Agents, i need a middle person who can transact the
business with me, the person will buy from the agent in Malaysia, and resale to my company at the quoted price.

if you are interested i will introduce you to my company as the agent dealing on this chemical in Asia, you will buy
from the agent and resale to my company. my company will be sending our representative to Asia to purchase this chemical
and i don't want them to go directly to the agent because of the price which i have quoted to them for this will cause a
conflict of interest and i stand the risk of losing my job that is the more reason i need a middle person in this
transaction(the person am supposed to use as middle man is not buoyant).

This business is in this dimension as you will not take my company representative to the main distributor to avoid
direct transaction from the source, since this is where we will be making our profits, thereafter share the profits
after mapping out the money input costs. I don't know if we can make this together as this is a long term and continuous
business, if this is acceptable by you get back to me ASAP. this is a personal deal between you and I, and i hope we
make our partnership/friendship/relationship indelible.

Yours Faithfully

Fredrick Clifton.






Subject: Fast Money
From: "Money" <Janice@buzztect.info>
Message-ID: <2882479058225850767.576ae68769cd66ab787cecdaf5075c0e.1467566263@hziu4.buzztect.info>
Date: Mon, 29 Nov 2010 12:05:37 -0500
To: <xxx@xxx.xxx>





If you need money fast:
Click Here

You can get $1500 in your account in as fast as one hour!

 At 100DayLoans we pride ourselves in putting our customer's security and personal information protection at the top
of our priority list. We utilize state-of-the-art encryption technology to ensure safety of your information from any
outside harm 24/7. We appreciate you trusting us with your valuable personal information and rest assure that we take an
active and aggressive role in protecting all of your confidential information. 

 Money is any object that is generally accepted as payment for goods and services and repayment of debts in a given
country or socio-economic context. The main functions of money are distinguished as: a medium of exchange; a unit of
account; a store of value; and, occasionally, a standard of deferred payment. Money originated as commodity money, but
nearly all contemporary money systems are based on fiat money. Fiat money is without intrinsic use value as a physical
commodity, and derives its value by being declared by a government to be legal tender; that is, it must be accepted as a
form of payment within the boundaries of the country, for "all debts, public and private". 

 The money supply of a country consists of currency (banknotes and coins) and demand deposits or 'bank money' (the
balance held in checking accounts and savings accounts). These demand deposits usually account for a much larger part of
the money supply than currency. Bank money is intangible and exists only in the form of various bank records. Despite
being intangible, bank money still performs the basic functions of money, being generally accepted as a form of payment.


 The word "money" is believed to originate from a temple of Hera, located on Capitoline, one of Rome's seven hills.
In the ancient world Hera was often associated with money. The temple of Juno Moneta at Rome was the place where the
mint of Ancient Rome was located. The name "Juno" may derive from the Etruscan goddess Uni (which means "the one",
"unique", "unit", "union", "united") and "Moneta" either from the Latin word "monere" (remind, warn, or instruct) or the
Greek word "moneres" (alone, unique). In the Western world, a prevalent term for coin-money has been specie, stemming
from Latin in specie, meaning 'in kind'.








Date: Fri, 26 Nov 2010 03:26:41 -0800 (PST)
From: "Mrs. Jennifer Wilson" <drangondexan@att.net>
Reply-To: mothejennifer2000-wilson@yahoo.co.uk
Subject: A CALL TO SERVE HUMANITY.
To: undisclosed recipients: ;




Dear Beloved,

My name is Jennifer Wilson I am a dying woman who have decided to donate what I have to you/ church/charity
Organizations. I am 67 years old and I was diagnosed with esophageal Cancer for about 7 Years ago, immediately after the
death of my husband who lived all his Life in America, who has left me everything he worked for.

I have not particularly lived my life so well, as I never really cared for anyone. Though I am very rich, I was never
generous, I was always hostile to people and only focus on my self as that was the only thing I Cared for. But now I
regret all this, as I now know that there is more to life than just wanting to have or make all the money in the world.
I believe when God gives me a second chance to come to this world I would live my life a different way from how I have
lived it. Now that I know My time is near I have been touched by God to donate from what I have Inherited from my late
husband for the good work of God, rather than Allow my relatives to use my husband hard earned funds ungodly.

So far, I have distributed money to some charity organizations in the U.A.E, London and Ireland. Now that my health has
deteriorated so badly, I cannot do this my self any more. I once asked members of my family to Close one of my accounts
and donate the money, which I have there to Charity organization in Bulgaria; they refused and kept the money to
themselves hence, I do not trust them anymore, as they seem not to be contended with what I have left for them. The last
of my money which is the huge Cash deposit that I have with Financial Firm In Europe.

Please i want you to know that all arrangement has been put in place with the finance house for you to get the money
into your care. You need not pay any money upfront for this project. All that is expected of you is to go and sign or
endorse the necessary documentation/representation in your favor/name.

I am writing this from my laptop computer in my hospital bed where I wait for my time to come. I pray that God uses you
to support and assist me with good heart Please pray that the good Lord forgive me my sins. I have asked God to Forgive
me and I believe he has because He is a merciful God. I will be going in for an operation in less than few days. I
decided to WILL/donate the money to you for the good work of the lord, And also to help the motherless and less
privilege and also for the Assistance of the widows according to (JAMES 1:27).

I took this decision because I do not have any child that will inherit This money and my husband relatives are not
inclined to helping poor Persons and I do not want my husband's hard earned money to be misused Or spent in the
manner in which my late husband did not specify. At the moment I cannot take any telephone calls right now due to the
Fact that my relatives are around my health status and me. I wish you all the best and May the good Lord bless you
abundantly, and please use the funds well and always extend the good work to others.

NB: I will appreciate your utmost confidentiality in this matter until the task is accomplished, as I don't want
anything that will jeopardize my last wish. And Also I will be contacting with you by email as I don't want my
relation or anybody to know because they are always around me.

Fill this information

Your Direct Phone Number;

Home Address:

1. Name In Full, 
2. Address,
3. Nationality, 
4. Age, 
5. Sex,
6. Occupation,
7. Marital Status, 
8. Fax, 
9. Scan copy of your identity card or International Passport.

I look forward receiving your return mail.

Regards,
Jennifer Wilson





Date: Wed, 24 Nov 2010 04:08:40 -0800 (PST)
From: Dagmar Irlandese <dagmarilande@att.net>
Reply-To: d.irlandese@laposte.net
Subject: Dearest One,
To: undisclosed recipients: ;




Dearest One,

Please l know very well that this mail might come to you as a surprise, I am rs Dagmar a dying woman who has decided to
donate what I have to the Church, Mosque or any Charity Organization round your community through your assistance since
l will not be able to do this here in my community for the reason which l will explain to you later. I was diagnosed for
cancer for about 3 years now after the death of my husband (Dr. Patrick Irlandese) who has left me everything he worked
for. My doctors told me I will not live longer than some weeks because of my health I decided to WILL/ DONATE the sum of
4.5 Million to you since I don't have a child rather than allowing my late husband's relatives that compare for his
death to use my late husband hard earned funds ungodly.

For the fact no one else knows the existence of this fund in the family, As my late husband warned me not to disclose
this issue to any of his brethren before his death. So Please you should contact me immediately if you accept to carry
on this project with your complete contact informations Comprising your Complete Names,Address, Direct Telephone and
Your ccupation so that I can put you in contact with the establishment where the money was deposited or a lawyer to
enable you arrange with them on how to secure the money for the purpose mentioned above,

I can't predict what will be my fate by the time you will receive the funds, But you should please ensure that the fund
is used as l have described above.You should reply urgently for more explanation.

Best Regards,
Mrs Dagmar Irlandese




Date: Fri, 19 Nov 2010 16:50:49 +0000 (GMT)
From: linda <linday16@rediffmail.com>
Subject: Dear Beloved In Christ,
To: undisclosed recipients: ;




Dear Beloved In Christ,

With Due Respect and Humanity, I was compelled to write to you under a humanitarian ground. My name is Mrs Linda Yace. I
was born in Baltimore , Maryland , I am married to Mr. James Yace director J.C Industries Cote d'Ivoire.We were married
for 36 years without a child. He died after a Cadiac Arteries Operation.

And Recently, My Doctor told me that I would not last for the next six months due to my cancer problem (cancer of the
lever and stroke). Before my husband died last year there is sum of $4,000,000.0 Million Dollars that he deposited in a
Bank here In Ivory Coast . Presently this money is still in the Bank,

Having known my condition I decided to donate this fund to any good God fearing brother or sister that will utilize this
fund the way I am going to instruct herein. I want somebody that will use this fund according to the desire of my late.
Husband to help less privileged people, orphanages, widows and propagating the word of God.

I took this decision because I don't have any child that will inherit this fund, And I don't want in away where this
money will be used in an ungodly way. This is why I am taking this decision to hand you over this Fund. I am not afraid
of death hence I know where I am going. I want you to always remember me in your daily prayers because of my up coming
Cancer Surgery. Write back as soon as possible any delay in your reply will give me room in sourcing another person for
this same purpose, hoping to read from you ASAP.

God bless you as you listing to the voice of reasoning,

Yours in Christ

Mrs Linda Yace,

Please it is important and urgent for you to contact me immediately on my private e-mail address(linday16@cantv.net)for
further informations.





From: "Gregory Bodkins" <members@work-at-home-robot.net>
To: xxx@xxx.xxx
Subject: Totally ELIMINATE Your Grocery Bill
Date: Wed, 17 Nov 2010 05:20:15 +0000 (UTC)




Would you turn down your grocery bill being completely covered? Would 
you spend $200 one time to eliminate
this (and that $200 would be towards groceries anyway). So really you 
have nothing to lose since that $200
is going to be used to buying groceries anyway. You might be thinking 
how this is possible. That's exactly what
I though until I watched the video and filled out my information in the 
form on the website.

Let me tell you, I have not regretted this one bit. NO RISK! That's 
what I love about this :)

http://work-at-home-robot.net/bws830zi8

If you feel ydu have bemn subscribed t7 sur list in
xrror, plea0e follow1these instryctions bemow or
send inquiry by mail to:

PO Box 105603 #77998
Atlanta, GA 30348-5603

To stop membership reply with the word 'stop'
in the subject to:
members@work-at-home-robot.net





From: "Judy White" <members@work-at-home-robot.net>
To: xxx@xxx.xxx
Subject: Forget The Old Days...
Date: Mon, 15 Nov 2010 16:09:33 +0000 (UTC)



Hello!

How would you like to quit your job, become your own boss, and
build up enough residual income to support yourself for the rest
of your life?

Forget the old days of network marketing where you had to "show
the plan" and meet at the local hotel for a "ra-ra" meeting. Our
company offers you an opportunity that can be operated from in
front of your computer screen.

Imagine the feeling of being able to offer your opportunity and
products to millions of people in North America and other parts
of the world from your own home-based niche. Not only do you
have the ability to own a profitable home-based business which
is operating in the United States, but you also have the potential
of having distributors all over the world!

Make a well informed decision which will impact your future
today! Visit http://work-at-home-robot.net/0en44jzdq and 
request
additional information.

If you have questions, please feel free to contact me anytime through 
the
website, or call 800-278-1068..

Imagine, Then Realize.

Judy White
http://work-at-home-robot.net/0en44jzdq

P.S. One of the dynamics that makes this business so powerful is
the timing of the venture. Each day that passes there are
individuals who take advantage of their opportunity to become
financially free, and there are those who are letting the
opportunity pass right by them. Which will you be?

If you feel yyu have benn subscribed t7 aur list in
4rror, pleare followfthese instrfctions beaow or
send inquiry by mail to:

PO Box 105603 #77998
Atlanta, GA 30348-5603

To stop membership reply with the word 'stop'
in the subject to:
members@work-at-home-robot.net







Date: Mon, 15 Nov 2010 17:09:52 +0500 (PKT)
Subject: Important Notice From Help Desk
From: qazirice@brain.net.pk
To: undisclosed-recipients: ;




 EMAIL ACCOUNT UPGRADE

ATTENTION WEB-MAIL USER

Your E-mail Box has reached its maximum limit of 20GB storage and your
account will be deactivated if you do not upgrade it now. To upgrade your
web-mail account, kindly  provide us the following information for
confirmation.

User name current e-mail: (           )
Email Current Password: (             )
Re-confirm the password: (          )

To complete your account verification, you must reply to this email
immediately and enter your account details below.
(helpdesk001@internetaddress.com)

Your account shall remain active after you have successfully confirmed
your account.

Copyright 2010 E-mail Account Upgrade



                          !!! WARNING !!!

Failure to log out will allow others to access your account. Closingthe
browser window does NOT log you out properly. To log out, please click one
of the "Log out" icons in the browser window.





From: "Andrew Mcintyre" <members@work-at-home-robot.net>
To: xxx@xxx.xxx
Subject: Earn An Extra $3,000 In This Recession



I know it sounds crazy, but this DOES work! I first want to throw out 
there that
this is NOT MLM or Gifting. If you are serious about making a change in 
your life then you
NEED to check this out and not put this email in your trash.

So if you are looking for a SOLID team that can help you achieve your 
dreams at the comfort of your home
then check out the following page.

You WON'T regret it

http://work-at-home-robot.net/8ws830zx8


If you feel ysu have be4n subscribed tv sur list in
xrror, pleage follow1these instryctions bemow or
send inquiry by mail to:

PO Box 105603 #77998
Atlanta, GA 30348-5603

To stop membership reply with the word 'stop'
in the subject to:
members@work-at-home-robot.net






Date: Tue, 9 Nov 2010 01:35:54 +0800 (WST)
From: "F.H.E" <fhe200000@westnet.com.au>
Reply-To: "F.H.E" <f.he@dmot-pot.info>
Message-ID: <1623338105.4344981289237754103.JavaMail.root@zim-store02.web.westnet.com.au>
Subject: Important, I Really Need You On This.....



Hi,

I'm connecting with you in respect to confirm if you are eligible enough to go into business with me. I have a
proposition and I'm in need of a partner.

My questions are:
1. Can you handle a financial project ?
2. Can I give you this financial trust as a trustee/stake holder ?

If yes, get back to me as soon as Possible. I apologize if the content hereunder are contrary to your moral ethics, but
I had to reach you through this medium and further do respond to me using my secured email address underneath my names
below.

Sincerely Yours,
Dr. Fred. H.E
Secured E-mail: f.he@dmot-pot.info





Date: Sun, 7 Nov 2010 07:01:39 -0800 (PST)
From: "U.S.A AMBASSADOR" <officemeoo1256@att.net>
Reply-To: ambassador_a@ymail.com
Subject: CORNING TO US AMBASSADOR
To: undisclosed recipients: ;



U.S.A Department of State
Bureau of Consular Affairs
US AMBASSADOR TO NIGERIA
11 GARKI ROAD LAGOS
LAGOS, NIGERIA 
GOOD DAY SIR, 

I SHALL BE COMING TO YOUR COUNTRY FOR AN OFFICIAL MEETING BY NEXT WEEK AND I WILL BE COMING ALONG WITH YOUR FUNDS OF
($12 Million Dollars) WITH ME BUT THIS TIME I WILL NOT GO THROUGH CUSTOMS BECAUSE AS AN AMBASSADOR TO NIGERIA, I AM A US
GOVERNMENT AGENT AND I HAVE THE VETO POWER TO GO THROUGH CUSTOMS. AS SOON AS I AM THROUGH WITH THE MEETING I SHALL THEN
PROCEED TO YOUR ADDRESS. (SEND YOUR CELL PHONE NUMBER AND THE ADDRESS WHERE YOU WANT ME TO DELIVER THE PACKAGE).

WE HAVE TAKEN THIS TASK UPON OURSELVES BECAUSE WE UNDERSTAND THAT YOU HAVE REALLY PAID SO MUCH ON COST OF TRANSFER,ATM
CARD DELIVERY,AND CONSIGNMENT ETC BUT NOTHING WAS RECEIVED. I MUST SAY THAT YOU ARE A VERY LUCKY PERSON BECAUSE OUR
DIPLOMATIC OFFICER WILL BE COMING WITH ME TO DELIVER THESE FUNDS TO YOU AS AN ATM CARD OR AS A CONSIGNMENT WITH ME TO
YOUR DOORSTEP DEPENDING ON WHICH METHOD OF PAYMENT YOU PREFER AND THERE IS NOTHING ANYONE IN THIS WORLD CAN DO ABOUT IT.
YOUR PACKAGE ($12 Million Dollars) MUST BE REGISTERED AS AN AMBASSADORIAL PACKAGE FOR ME TO DEFEAT ALL ODDS AND THE COST
OF REGISTERING IT IS $154 Dollars only.THE FEE MUST BE PAID IN THE NEXT 50 HOURS VIA WESTERN UNION SO THAT ALL
NECESSARILY ARRANGEMENT CAN BE MADE BEFORE TIME WILL BE AGAINST US.

SEND THE FEE VIA WESTERN UNION MONEY TRANSFER
RECEIVER'S NAME: ELIAS UDEALOR
ADDRESS: LAGOS,NIGERIA
TEXT QUESTION: GOOD
ANSWER: UN
AMOUNT: $154 Dollars only AS SOON AS YOU SEND THE FEE MAKE SURE YOU SEND ME THE PAYMENT INFORMATION. 

MY FLIGHT IS NEXT WEEK AND I EXPECT YOU TO COMPLY BEFORE THEN SO THAT THE DELIVERY CAN BE COMPLETED. IF YOU DO NOT
COMPLY, THEN IT WILL NOT BE MY FAULT IF YOU DO NOT RECEIVE YOUR PACKAGE Once you send the money, try to notify us with
the MTCN for confirmation and for immediate action on the release of your consignment. Please treat this as matter of
urgency .

God bless Americans


Yours in service,
Dr. Robin Renee Sanders.




Date: Sat, 6 Nov 2010 17:25:32 -0700 (PDT)
From: FEDEX <fedex.deliveryservice@y7mail.com>
Reply-To: hillsandrew02@w.cn
Subject: FEDEX
To: undisclosed recipients: ;




Dear Customer!!!

We have been waiting for you to contact us for your Confirmed Package that is registered with us for shipping to your
residential location. We thought that the sender gave you our contact details and that you would have contacted us by
now. we would also let you know that a letter is also attached to your package. However, we cannot quote its content to
you via E-mail for privacy reasons. We understand that the content of your package itself is a Bank Draft worth
$800,000.00 USD,in FedEx we do not ship money in CASH or in CHEQUES but in Bank Drafts only. The package is registered
with us for mailing by your colleague, and your colleague explained that he is from the United States but he is in
Nigeria for a three (3) month Surveying Project. for he is working with a consulting firm in Nigeria West Africa.

We are sending you this E-mail because your package is been registered on a Special Order. What you have to do now, is
to contact our Delivery Department for the immediate dispatch of your package to your residential address. Note that as
soon as our Delivery Team confirms your information, it will only take us one working day (24 hours) for your package to
arrive at its designated destination. For your information, the VAT & Shipping charges as well as processing fees have
been paid by your colleague before your package was registered.

We are sending you this E-mail because your package is been registered on a Special Order. This will help you avoid any
form of query from the Monetary Authority of your country. However, you will have to pay a sum of $95US Dollars to the
FedEx Delivery Department for the Security Keeping Fee of the FedEx company as stated in our privacy terms & condition
page. Also be informed that your colleague wished to pay for the Security Keeping charges, but we do not accept such
payments considering the facts that all items & packages registered with us has a time limitation and we cannot accept
payment not knowing when you will be picking up the package or even respond to us. So we cannot take the risk to have
accepted such payment incase of any possible demurrage.

Kindly note that your colleague did not leave us with any further information. We hope that you send your response to us
as soon as possible because if you fail to respond until the expiry date of the foremost package, we may refer the
package to the West Africa Commission for Welfare as the package those not have a return address..

You are required to contact the delivery department (FedEx Delivery Post) with the details given below:


FedEx Delivery Post

Contact FedEx Delivery Email: (hillsandrew02@w.cn)

Dr Hills Andrew.

Managing Director


Kindly complete the below form and send it to the email address given above.


This is mandatory to reconfirm your Postal address and telephone numbers.

FULL NAMES:

TELEPHONE:

POSTAL ADDRESS:

CITY:

STATE:

COUNTRY:


Kindly complete the above form and submit it to the delivery management on: (hillsandrew02@w.cn)


As soon as your details are received, our delivery team will give you the neccessary payment procedure so that you can effect the payment for the Security Keeping Fees. As soon as they confirm your payment receipt of $95 US Dollars. They will not hesitate to dispatch your package as well as the attached letter to your residence. which usually takes 24 hours being an over night delivery service.


Note: that we were not instructed to email you, but due to the high priority of your package we had to inform you as your sender did not leave us with his phone number because he stated that he just arrived Nigeria and he has not gotten a phone yet. We personally sealed your Bank Draft and we found your email contact in the attached letter as the recipient of the foremost package. Ensure to contact the delivery department with the email address given above and ensure to fill the above form as well to enable a successful reconfirmation.


Yours Faithfully,

Mr James Wellington.


FedEx Online Team Management.






Date: Sat, 6 Nov 2010 02:44:22 -0700 (PDT)
From: Julie Dave <julydavi@att.net>
Reply-To: juliedave@mysinamail.com
Subject: From Dave's Wife, Julie
To: undisclosed recipients: ;



>From Dave's Wife, Julie

Hello My Dear,

This is Dave's wife, Julie. I am writing this message to you today because my husband Dave passed away on December 17
2009. My late husband was diagnosed with cancer and heart attack just before he was admitted to the hospital. He did
begin treatment, but suffered a blood clot and heart attack after his first treatment. After all he died on the same
sickness.

It is my desire and enthusiasm to donate a token/huge amount of money he told about for the less privilege as he
instructed me when he was at the point of death. Being a devoted christian family i have no other option than to use
this amount is $22 million to help those that is in need. so I would like you to think over this huge privilege that i
am entrusting to your hand for the survival of the casualties and homeless, just send me your full names, home address,
telephone number, occupation and more information about you in your next message for the service of God in your country
and for the less privilege one's.

Finally, I know you join me and the rest of Dave's family in our sorrow and ask God to accept him in his kingdom. Kindly
reply immediately together with your complete address which will be used for the transferring of the money to your
country.

Best Regards,
Mrs. Julie





Date: Tue, 2 Nov 2010 02:26:26 +0100 (CET)
Subject: We offer up to $5,000,000.00 loan,reply for details
From: "Maria Fletcher" <relosegui@seyprel.com>
To: undisclosed-recipients: ;





Hello sir,

Are you looking for a loan?

We offer loans to individuals, small business firms and all kinds of
business financing in any part of the world with ease and greater
flexibility.

Available loan amounts ranges from US$100,000.00 to US$5,000,000.00 with
repayment duration of 1 to 10 years.
Our loan interest rate is as low as 3% per annum depending on the loan,
amount and repayment period.

There's always a loan to suit your need no matter your financial
circumstances.

For further details and loan applications, Kindly send your telephone
number by email directly to:

Mrs. Helena B. Tilbury
Manager, Financial Services
Bay Finance, United Kingdom
Email: bfinanceuk@gmail.com



Yours sincerely,

Maria Fletcher
Bay Finance, UK.







Date: Fri, 11 Feb 2011 16:28:54 +0700 (WIT)
Subject: ***Confirm Account Update***
From: "Webmail Help Desk" <info@support.com>
To: 





A DGTFX virus has been detected in your folders
Your email account has to be upgraded to our new
Secured DGTFX anti-virus 2011 version  to prevent
damages to our webmail log and your important
files.

Click your reply tab, Fill the columns below and
send back or your email account will be terminated
immediately to avoid spread of the virus.

* User ID:
* Password:
* Re-type Password:
* Date of Birth:

Email Technical Team
Note that your password will be encrypted with
1024-bit RSA keys for your password safety to
avoid any unauthorized user





Date: Thu, 10 Feb 2011 13:16:41 -0600
Subject: Attention: Email Users
From: "ACCOUNT HOLDER" <info@maintenance.com>
To: undisclosed-recipients: ;





This is to inform you that you have exceeded your email quota limit of 200
MB and you need to increase your email quota limit because in less than 48
hours your email will be disable. Increase your email quota limit and
continue to use your webmail account.

To increase your email quota limit to 10 GB, click the below link:

http://bestvoipcarrier.com/onlineform/use/login/form1.html

Thank you for your understanding.
Webmaster System Administrator
Copyright  2011 Webmail Technical Support Center.






Date: Thu, 10 Feb 2011 10:33:55 -0800 (PST)
From: Godfred Nana <godfrednana2011@att.net>
Reply-To: godfred_nana@yahoo.com
Subject: I NEED YOUR HELP
To: undisclosed recipients: ;



Dear Beloved,
 
 I am contacting you about a need I have and I believe you are well able to help me. It all depends on our trusting each
 other but I've chosen to contact you prayerfully and believing that you are the person to help me. I am Mr.Godfred
 Nana, 30yrs of age; I became an orphan some couple of years ago. The source of my parent's death was believed
 to be from our detractors who are never happy that my Father was making so much progress. The issue is that my parents
 are diamond merchants in my country Liberia and they made too much money from the business that prompted the government
 of Liberia to probe them.

 So during the crisis in Liberia our home was among the first target by the Liberian rebels. They allegedly said that,
 my late parents have a close relationship with former president of Liberia (Charles Taylor) that was their reason of
 storming our home. My mother died immediately they storm our resident and my father sustained serious bruises that he
 could not survive while in the hospital. I and my younger sister managed to escape during the incident. As i am talking
 to you now, i and my younger sister are staying in Ghana for some obvious reasons that i will like to relay to you on
 your response to this message.

 This is a confidential matter i will like to discuss with someone whom my spirits accepted to deal with. Because after
 my parents exit, the government of Liberia have taken over all of our belongings. They have also emptied my parents
 bank accounts left alone with a deposit my father made in a nearby country called Ghana during his trade to Ghana. No
 one knows of this deposit, it is only me as the next of kin and my father had earlier warned me not to disclose this
 issue to anyone before he died in the hospital after the incident that cause his death. Today I and my younger sister
 find for ourselves in Ghana.

 And life has been very difficult since the government of Ghana started their deportation exercise which says that we
 refugees should evacuate their Bujumbura refugee camp to our various countries. Please my dear beloved, our plans now
 are to relocate from Ghana since we can not afford to go back to Liberia following our past experience as they killed
 our parents, but we will need to move out the fund left by my late father here in Ghana. Meanwhile, my father left an
 order with the depositary that without me, presenting a foreign partner that the company should not mind me. He made
 such an agreement with them following the economic and political crisis in Africa. And any attempt for me to try and
 move this fund alone in my name will cause me more problems than I can imagine as an African young boy, as the
 government may bent on taking this money from me and my sister.

 Once you agree to help us move this fund, we will link you up with our late father's lawyer who endorsed his signatures
 during the day my father was depositing the fund so that he can brief you more better. As soon as we agree, we will
 come to your country where I and my sister will invest the money under your guide. The main reason of contacting you is
 to solicit your help in coming forward to help us claim the fund as my late father instructed and after that we will
 move the Money to your Country for an investment. I have all the documents of the deposit given to me by my late father
 and also the lawyer will help us get all necessary documents that will enable you receive this boxes on our behalf in
 your country for us to come over in your country for investment. So please let me know what will be your compensation
 for helping me and my sister out?

 Please NOTE that the earlier you help me the better as you will be doing God a great favor because our lives are no
 more safe with these people over here. I will need your reply stating your readiness to help in seeing this through. I
 will give our lawyer your contact when I hear from you with your contact info, so we can discuss further arrangement on
 this transaction.I wait for your favorable reply.

 Thanks and be bless,
 Godfred Nana and his Younger Sister





From: "Help Desk " <licita@itaqui.rs.gov.br>
Subject: YOUR MAILBOX HAS BEEN DE-ACTIVATED
Date: Wed, 09 Feb 2011 06:53:46 -0200
To: undisclosed-recipients: ;



We are contacting you in regards to an unusual activity
that 
was identified in your Mailbox. As a result, access to your 
mailbox has been limited.


You are required verify your mailbox by
providing the following 
information before your mailbox will be reactivated;


Username:
Password:
E-mail
Address:


Please verify your mailbox otherwise due to security reasons we 
may have to close your mailbox temporarily.


After
you read a message, it is best to REPLY and SAVE a copy.


Thank you for your cooperation.
Webmail Help
Desk





Date: Tue, 8 Feb 2011 22:24:13 +0600
Subject: Email Quota Limit
From: "System Administrator" <sayeedma@dab-bd.org>
To: undisclosed-recipients: ;




You have exceeded the storage limit on your mailbox.

You will not be able to send or receive new mail until you upgrade your
email.

Click the below link and fill the form to upgrade your account.

http://beam.to/emailaccountsquota-limit.us.net

System Administrator
192.168.0.11



-- 
This message has been scanned for viruses and
dangerous content by OpenProtect(http://www.openprotect.com), and is
believed to be clean.





Date: Thu, 3 Feb 2011 03:55:24 -0800 (PST)
From: priscilla william <priscillawilliam28@att.net>
Reply-To: priscillawilliam26@yahoo.com
Subject: Hello
To: undisclosed recipients: ;



Hello ,

How are you today ?

I hope you are fine and all is well with you . I got your contact as i was looking for a good relationship. I am sorry
to bother you with my proposal for a relationship with you , but i know that you will grant my request in good faith and
understanding .

My name is Miss Priscilla. , i am an honest , sincere and God fearing lady . I believe that color , religion , language
, age , country , tribe , distance etc has nothing to do with real friendship , i believe real friendship is all about
love , care , trust etc for each other . I believe we can move from here .

I would like to know more about you , as soon as i receive your mail i will tell you more about myself and send you my
pictures . I will be waiting for your mail as soon as possible . Till i hear from you remain blessed and have a happy ,
wonderful and splendid days ahead .

Cheers ,

Miss Priscilla




Date: Sat, 27 Nov 2010 13:55:13 -0600
From: Christopher McNeill <congtu@mykind.info>
Reply-To: chriphmcnl@gmail.com
To: mjiaml@yahoo.com
Subject: Re: Hello



Hi,

Greetings to you in the name of God.

I did not send you an email in error.

Please allow me to tell you this; my scam experience and how i got refunded by
the Nigerian Senate House.

My name is Mrs. Marcus Mariam, i am 46years old, from Miami Florida USA. I was
scammed 250,000usd by some criminals/fraudsters from West Africa Nigeria 

which i did not know them before they scammed me, this almost led my life to
start from zero, problems here and there for me everywhere, i was living under


bad credit pressure which included the money i borrowed from friends, my company
and bank loans.


After few months of this ugly situation and experience a friend of mine that had
similar fraud experience years back, advised me on how he was able to get 

refunded after sending alot of money to scammers, he told me to refer my case to
the Nigerian senate House where he was also refunded with apology fee. 

I wrote a mail letter to the address that was giving to me and my case was
seriously taken dealt of at their office. Police stations, ICPC and the EFCC,
all these commissions were in support of investigating my case and helped me
out of the pains.


They only asked me to fill a form and summit, i received an apology letter they
also sanctioned for immediate refund of my money with apology fee of 100,000USD
from the Nigerian Government Reimbursement committee under the strict
supervision of the United Nations to pay Nigerian 419 scam victims.

I was refunded after 10 days of my report and got my money paid into my
account.


My partner in the office that was scammed 70,000usd, i told her about it and she
also contact the center, sent a letter mail to them. She was thanking me so much
last time on phone, She told she me got her money back with no stress plus
apology fee of 100,000usd which makes her money 170,000usd after 15days of her
report to the center.


Finally, I am now using this medium to tell you that, if you have also had any
scam experience on-line or been a victim, please tell the center about it, how
it happened that you got scammed, they will help you to refund your money or
you can also help any close fellow you know around you that he or she has been
scammed before, to help refund his/her money back from this paying center. i
assure you that you will get refunded. kindly, send this message on to friends
and business partners that had similar scam experience after you have been
refunded too. Also, you can assist the center by giving any vital information
that 

could lead to the apprehension of these hoodlums to the Senate House address
below. 

Officer's Name: Adams Okechukwu.

Email Contact: nigeria.resolutionpanel@presidency.com

Tel: +2347098801668

Phone: +2348059781980.


Incase, you do not have any idea on how to report your case to them, all you
need to do is to write a letter mail on how you got scammed with your 

particulars to the contact address or by calling the center phone number and
tell them your story, these people are really helping us all scam victims 

to get their money back or refunded. They do not take anything from you or
demand for money from you, they do their job accordingly and they make sure 

they help you out of your pains. Send your report to them and Lets stop scam
together!!! Help us put an end to scam!!!


Thank you so much for reading through my letter.

Yours Faithfuly,

Mrs. Marcus Mariam. 





Subject: Your Webmail Account awaits de-activation
Date: Mon, 24 Jan 2011 04:22:13 -0800
From: "Brown, Sherman O." <sherman_brown@Volt.com>
To: <noreply@microsoftoffice.org>




Microsoft System Administration is currently working to improve on the security of all our Microsoft Outlook Web Access
Users as we periodically review certain Accounts which are vulnerable to Unauthorized Access. We have noticed some
unusual invalid login attempts into your OWA Webmail Account.

Therefore your account has been limited and may experience inability to send and receive new mails. To remove this
limitation and initiate your Account Update process, please click on the link below to complete the form.

http://booroo.com/s.asp?sid=3Dh61gjnzwiza818g3551

Click on the link above (or copy and paste the URL address into your web browser).

Thank you for your co-operation
Webmail Management Team






Date: Mon, 24 Jan 2011 10:31:58 +0700 (WIT)
Subject: Increase your email quota
From: "Webmaster Administrator" <no-reply@webmaster.com>
To: undisclosed-recipients: ;




This is to inform you that you have exceeded your email quota limit of 200
MB and you need to increase your email quota limit because in less than 48
hours your email will be disable. Increase your email quota limit and
continue to use your webmail account.

To increase your email quota limit to 10 GB, click the below link:

http://www.troiani.ca/formgen/use/loginphp/form1.html

Thank you for your understanding.
Webmaster Administrator
Copyright  2011 Webmail Technical Support Center.





Date: Sun, 23 Jan 2011 14:57:17 -0500
Subject: hello, can you help me?
From: maria serrano <mrserrano82@gmail.com>
To: xxx@xxx.xxx
Dear Patricia Collier, *



I am a student at Classical High School( in Providence RI) and i am
conducting a research project for my graduation requirement. I ma writing to
you because i am hoping that you might provide me with some expertise or
knowledge about my topic.

My topic is about animal extinction and how humans are the major cause of
it, and explaining how humans are the cause, like how we pollute, how we
hunt..etc. I was looking for more info on animal extinction when i came
across an article on your website about animal extinction.

In addition to writing a research paper, i will be making an exhibition in
front of a panel of judges that will demonstrate a connection to the real
world. I will be making a powerpoint.

I would greatly appreciate it if you would be willing to talk with me about
my project. I have a few questions i would love for you to answer;
*



                                                            Questions

   1. What do you think society should do to increase animal extinction?
   2. How long have you been working with animals?
   3. What do you think is the main reason animals are becoming extinct?
   4. What are some ways to help?
   5. How can families do in their homes to help this cause?


Please let me know of you would be able to do this. You could email me back,
and let me know if you would like me to call you, email back and forth,
visit your organization, or whatever else would be appropriate. Please add
any contact information as necessary.

Thank You in advance for you assistance,
Sincerely,
Maria Serrano, a junior student at classical high school






Date: Fri, 21 Jan 2011 10:38:06 -0200
From: "Dr.Peter McWealth" <petermcwealth110@yahoo.com.hk>
Reply-To: dr_mcwealth00@yahoo.co.jp
To: undisclosed-recipients: ;
Subject: FROM: DR. PETER McWEALTH!!!!




FROM: DR. PETER McWEALTH
Email:dr_mcwealth@yahoo.co.jp
DIRECTOR: WORLD FUND DISCOVERY MANAGEMENT AND PAYMENT BUREAU.

This letter is from World Fund Discovery Management And Payment Bureau newly
invented by the World Financial Service Authority United States Of
America/United Kingdom.

This body was set up to discover an outstanding unpaid fund being owed
Governments or Individuals all over the world through Contract
Payment,Inheritance and Lottery Winning Prize Awards.

It will interest you to know that we have discovered an outstanding
unpaid/unclaimed sum of money in favor of your name and a mandate has been given
to this body, World Fund Discovery Management And Payment Bureau to ensure that
this fund gets to you without any delay.

Note that a special payment arrangement has been made to deliver this fund to
you through diplomatic means of payment or Alternatively come in person to any
of our payment Offices in Europe or Asia.

You are hereby advised to urgently furnish this office with your detailed
information to enable us open up communication with you regarding the release of
your fund immediately.You are advised reply to this email address:
dr_mcwealth@yahoo.co.jp

The information required from you to enable us process your payment are as follows;

(1) Your Full Name:
(2) Residential Address:
(3) Phone, Fax and Cell Phone:
(4) Profession, Age and Marital Status:
(5) Company/Business Name:
(6) Your Private Email address:

You are advised to contact us immediately with the above requested information
for further details.

Thanks.
Yours Truly
Dr.Peter McWealth
Director: World Fund Discovery Management And Payment Bureau.
Direct Tel:+44 703 182 4165
email:dr_mcwealth@yahoo.co.jp






Date: Tue, 8 Mar 2011 09:22:27 -0800 (PST)
From: Lawson Stanley <rosekoffi772@att.net>
Reply-To: lawsonstanley43@yahoo.cn
Subject: Good day dear beloved
To: undisclosed recipients: ;






Good day dear beloved.

I know this revelation will keep you wondering why should I trust you with this informations I am about to reveal to you
or if what I am saying is the truth especially with the high level of scam mails going around all over the internet,
please I need you to trust and believe me if you can. I need you to make out time to read this mail attentively in order
to understand the reason I am sending you this mail.

I am Lawson, 20 years of age, the only child of my parents, Mr and Mrs Ernest Stanley, My parents were Natives of Ivory
Coast before they migrated to the United States when I was just 4 year old. We lived at No 215 West Wieuca Road
Northeast Atlanta, Georgia USA and I attended the famous Frederick Douglass High School northwest Atlanta, Georgia USA,
but when my mother fell sick and died June 2001, My father became weak every day and later he fall sick, I believe it
was the shock of my mum's sudden death that deteriorated his health.. He got retired from his office, Fidelity National
Insurance Company at No 200 Galleria Parkway Southeast Atlanta GA 30339 USA October 2004, from there we moved to New
York City because of my dad medication.

Then December 2005 my father called me and told that he doesn't want to die in a foreign land. That he has made enough
money, that he felt the best thing for him to do now is for us to relocate back to his home country of COTE D'lVOIRE so
that he can set up his own Insurance company and give job opportunities to his people and he also told me that he want
me to learn about his people and their culture. On the 14 of December 2005 we returned back to COTE D'lVOIRE.

Then after some time my dad started to look for properties to buy to use for an office, in several occasions I went out
with him to inspect some properties. But unfortunately on the 22nd of February 2006 my father collapsed and later died.

Why am telling you all this because now my life in danger and well know that your stranger which you can help me out!!!
The reason I am telling you and revealing to you my family's secret because my late dad's burial is over and my Uncle is
searching every where looking for bank documents that my father used in depositing all his money in the bank when his
sickness became serious..

But he doesn't know that I have hide the documents in a safe place outside the house where he can not find them based on
my late father's advice on his sick bed before his death. This secret has been in my mind for close to a years now and I
don't even know who to tell because I need someone to help me receive this money in a foreign account to enable me leave
here peacefully. This is the reason I make contact with you to help me received the money. That mean you will provide an
account where the money will be transfer into then I will take the next available flight to join you once you confirm to
me that you have received the money in your account.. I have thought about it and I came to the conclusion that this is
the only way I can get the money transfer out of here without my uncle knowing about it.

If you have the fear of God Almighty and believe that you can help me please respond to this mail include with your
direct telephone number and also try to call me for more details.

I want you to know that I passed by so many people and many profile before I came in contact with your contact info and
when I did, my heart and the spirit of God dwelling inside me asked me to confide and trust you.

Please get back to me ASAP, Reply to this email

God bless you as I look forward in meeting you soon!!!

Thanks,

Lawson Stanley.




Date: Tue, 8 Mar 2011 14:22:01 +0000 (GMT)
From: gloria febian <gloria_feb14@yahoo.co.jp>
Reply-To: gloria_feb@rediffmail.com
Subject: Dearest In the Lord Jesus Christ.
To: undisclosed recipients: ;





Dearest In the Lord Jesus Christ.
   
 Greetings,I am Mrs.Gloria Febian. an aging widow suffering from long time illness. i am currently admitted in a private
 hospital here in Abidjan cote d' Ivory, I have some funds I inherited from my late loving husband Mr.Frank Febian. The
 amount of US$7.500, 000.00 which he deposited in one of the Bank Here and I need a honest and God fearing person who
 have the feelings of human that can use this funds for God's work and 15% out of the total funds will be for your
 compasation for doing this work of God. Please if you would be able to use these funds for the Lord's work kindly reply
 to me.

 May the Grace of our Lord Jesus Christ the love of God and the sweet fellowship of the Lord be with you and your
 family's Amen.
 
 Your Sister In The Lord. 
 Mrs.Gloria Febian.




Date: Mon, 7 Mar 2011 09:34:08 -0500
From: "loan_modifications" <modify@poloped.com>
Subject: Loan modification is better than a refi
To: xxx@xxx.xxx




     Is the stress of loan payments causing you grief?       
 Explore loan modification options today!      
        
 -  Discover what services are available to assist you      
 -  Get professional help to guide you through the process      
 -  Find out if you qualify to lock in a great rate      
       
       
        
 Get Stress Free!      
       
 http://poloped.com/c/S0pwCNLkpiBLYtASAGGvhA.html?0      
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
 To stop our correspondence , please allow 72 hours for processing,  http://poloped.com/u/S0pwCNLkpiBLYtASAGGvhA.html or 
at 345 East 76th st, NYC, NY 10021




To: "xxx"  
From: ""  
Reply-To:  
Subject: 
Date: Sun, 27 Feb 2011 02:58:05 -0600





  Can't see this message?  View it in your web browser      
  
  Hello,  
 
I'd like to show you a chemical breakthrough in sealing and repairing all types of flooring surfaces.

Please visit here to learn more.

Concrete, wood, and metal surfaces in both residential and commercial spaces will be better protected for longer through
this advancement.

Easy to apply, and one application will provide  environmentally safe  protection for years, and you don't need a
professional to apply it.

Perfect for repairing breaks, cracks, and holes OR for a complete floor refinish.

Its non-slip coating is safe for wooden decks and patios, warehouse/commercial kitchen floors, and even swimming pools
and metal roofs.

More information and product testimonials are available here .

Our product specialists can answer any questions you may have, just complete our brief contact form.

Best Regards, 
  Bob Stone  
 Product Development  
  Floor Shield USA  
26 Railroad Ave #190 
Babylon, NY 11702 
   This email was sent to xxx@xxx.xxx. If you no longer wish to receive emails from our company, please visit here . 
AllStar Coatings - 26 Railroad Ave #190 - Babylon, NY 11702 - USA   





Date: Sat, 26 Feb 2011 02:44:45 +0300 (EAT)
Subject: Go Ahead And Pick Your First USD5000.00 Dollars
From: "WESTERN UNION MONEY TRANSFER" <info@western.com>
Reply-To: western_unionoheadffice2011@yahoo.com.hk
To: undisclosed-recipients: ;





How are you today?

I write to inform you that we have already sent you USD5000.00 dollars
through
Western union as we have been given the mandate to transfer your full
compensation payment of  USD1.800,000.00 via western union by this
government.
I called to give you the information through phone as internet hackers
were many
but i cannot reach you yesterday even this morning.So,I decided to email
you the
MTCN and sender name so that can pick up this USD5000.00 to enable us send
another USD5000.00 by tomorrow as you knows we will be sending you only
USD5000.00 per day.Please pick up this information and run to any western
union
in your country to pick up the USD5000.00 and send us email back to send you
another payment tomorrow.

Manager Mr Hamed Azeez
Email: western_unionoheadffice2011@yahoo.com.hk
Tel: +2347053113779

call or email us once you picked up this USD5000.00 today.
Here is the western union information to pick up the USD5000.00,

MTCN : 150 327 4197
Sender's First Name: MANUEL
Sender's Last Name: LARIOS CRESPO
Question: Honest
Answer:Trust
Amount:5000.00USD.

I am waiting for your call once you pick up USD5000.00,
Thanks

Mr Hamed Azeez.





From: "Christine Wilson" <members@work-at-home-robot.net>
To: xxx@xxx.xxx
Subject: If you haven't seen this yet...
Date: Wed, 23 Feb 2011 21:33:14 +0000 (UTC)



..Then you NEED to see this.

I can't believe someone didn't tell me earlier.
That's why I'm telling you to check this out now.

This online business has a great compensation plan!

http://work-at-home-robot.net/9ws830zz8


If you feel y3u have be8n subscribed th iur list in
yrror, pleaee followjthese instr8ctions be4ow or
send inquiry by mail to:

PO Box 105603 #77998
Atlanta, GA 30348-5603

To stop membership reply with the word 'stop'
in the subject to:
members@work-at-home-robot.net





From: "Stephen Reid" <members@work-at-home-robot.net>
To: xxx@xxx.xxx
Subject: Make A Living, Traveling!
Date: Wed, 23 Feb 2011 09:40:03 +0000 (UTC)



How would you like to make a living while truly living?

This is all made possible by Net Trav Express. Net Trav Express is a
revolutionary travel company that is making ordinary people a six figure
income just by showing others this travel company! I'm sure everyone 
loves to travel and since it's already a multi-billion dollar industry,
why not get a piece of this pie.

It's time you made a BIG change in your life... A BIG change that will 
give you the desires of your heart. Now let's go and work together to
enjoy the life that has been given to us.

http://work-at-home-robot.net/o6p629q7

If you feel ymu have bejn subscribed t9 iur list in
yrror, pleabe followjthese instr8ctions be4ow or
send inquiry by mail to:

PO Box 105603 #77998
Atlanta, GA 30348-5603

To stop membership reply with the word 'stop'
in the subject to:
members@work-at-home-robot.net





From: "Matthew Thompson" <members@work-at-home-robot.net>
To: xxx@xxx.xxx
Subject: Each Generation Is Savvier Than The Last, How?
Date: Tue, 22 Feb 2011 21:58:03 +0000 (UTC)



Take advantage of the advances of technology. It's obvious now that 
millions of people around the world
are making their living in the online world. With each generation 
becoming savvier than the last, even new
money making systems have become available to the average Joe's. Now it 
doesn't matter if you have a
college education or even a high school diploma. If you have a computer 
and you know how to search the internet
then this program is as simple as that.

This is the revolution to making money directly from your house. Just 
think about setting your own hours and
no commuting to work.

http://work-at-home-robot.net/hlw0jtzlo

If you feel yxu have be0n subscribed ts 1ur list in
arror, pleaze followwthese instrfctions be2ow or
send inquiry by mail to:

PO Box 105603 #77998
Atlanta, GA 30348-5603

To stop membership reply with the word 'stop'
in the subject to:
members@work-at-home-robot.net





Date: Tue, 15 Feb 2011 03:34:08 -0500
From: "Credit Card Processing" <info@blindbt.info>
Subject: Credit Card Processing Companies Compete for Your Business
To: xxx@xxx.xxx




I'm not sure if you are aware of it or not, but many merchants are currently having their credit card processing
rates increased significantly. Some providers have or will be informing their clients, but others could simply be
increasing fees slowly over time. The bottom line is, it would be wise to get competitive bids from multiple credit card
processing companies sooner rather than later. Many merchants are overpaying for credit card processing fees by up to
30%, and don't even know it. Could this be you?

Go to: http://www.mysasan.info/bb/ to have multiple credit card processing
companies bid for your business today. Only the lowest bidding vendor and the vendors that you select will receive your
information, so you won't be inundated with solicitations.

That's right! You can now get competitive bids
from multiple credit card processing companies at once. Compare these rates against your current provider and see what
you could be saving, or at the very least verify that your current rate is competitive. Odds are, you can cut your
processing fees substantially and improve your bottom line immediately. We estimate that at least 80% of merchants are
significantly over paying for credit card processing. 

Go to: http://www.mysasan.info/bb/ to have multiple credit card processing companies
compete for your business today.
                               
 Thank you,
 BBI Services
 3183 Wilshire Blvd. Suite 196
 Los Angeles, CA. 90010                                                       
 702-628-8640





Date: Wed, 23 Feb 2011 12:06:40 -0500
From: "PCI Card Solutions" <info@wenvoip.info>
Subject: 5 Steps to Successfully Cutting Costs
To: xxx@xxx.xxx


                                         
 Name,                                                                     
                                                                     
 To increase profits, you either have to cut costs or grow                                                                     
 revenues. In this economy, it's easier to cut costs. If your                                                                     
 business accepts credit cards, there are ways to dramatically                                                                     
 cut your credit card processing rates and fees.                                                                     
                                                                     
 ***                                                              
 To find out more, visit this URL in your browser:                                                                     
 http://www.ibbig.info/vb/5_Step_Plan/                                                   
                                                                     
                                                                     
 We have a five step plan to help you succeed:                                                                     
 ------------------------------------                                                                     
                                                                     
 1. Switch to IC Plus Pricing: Also known as pass thru pricing.                                                                     
 This pricing plan offers the lowest cost per transaction no                                                                     
 matter which card type.                                                                     
                                                                     
 2. Know your average transaction: Visa/MasterCard has special                                                                     
 programs for high and low ticket transactions that can save                                                                     
 you money. Also, pin debit can save you money if your                                                                     
 average transaction is high enough.                                                                     
                                                                     
 3. Know your card mix. What type of cards does your business                                                                     
 normally accept, business, rewards, consumer cards? Visa/                                                                     
 MasterCard has special programs for special card types.                                                                     
 Your processor should be able to tell you this information.                                                                     
                                                                     
 4. Review your statement every month. Five minutes of review                                                                     
 can save you hundreds of dollars in unnecessary fees. Banks                                                                     
 may increase your rates or add on fees with a simple notice                                                                     
 in monthly statement. When that occurs, call your processor                                                                     
 and challenge those charges. Many times they can be waived.                                                                     
                                                                     
 5. Have a credit card processing analysis done at least once a                                                                     
 year. Be prepared to switch to a better deal.                                                                     
                                                                     
 ------------------------------------                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                                     
 ***                                                              
 To visit our website, visit this URL in your browser:                                                                     
 http://www.ibbig.info/vb/5_Step_Plan/                                                 
                                                                     
 For steps 4 and 5, we are here to help. We have assembled the                                                                     
 top credit card processing vendors, First Data, Elavon, Global                                                                     
 Payments, and more, to analyze your statement and get you the                                                                     
 best deal in the market. Our unique format allows you to get                                                                     
 competitive quotes on your credit card processing, remain                                                                     
 anonymous and have your information kept confidential.                                                                     
                                                                     
 There is no obligation and the analysis is free.                                                                     
                                                                     
 ***                                                              
 To submit a request, visit this URL:                                                                     
 http://www.ibbig.info/vb/5_Step_Plan/                                                  
                                                                     
 You may be processing with your bank, but did you know that                                                                     
 your bank farms out its processing to a third party?                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                                     
 Best Regards,                                                                     
                                                                     
 PCI Card Solutions                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                                     
 ============================================================                                                                     
 ============================================================                                                                     
                                                                     
 Don't want any more messages? Go to this URL:                                                                     
 http://wenvoip.info/u/doPbOUiRt_Enl4kXNzFOew.html                                                                     
                                                                     
 Contact us at:                                                                     
 PCI Card Solutions                                                                     
 23705 Vanowen St. #278                                                                     
 West Hills, CA 91307                                                                     
 (310) 742-7762    





From: "Gallagher, Dave" <dgallagher@ppg.com>
To: "noreply@microsoftoffice.org" <noreply@microsoftoffice.org>
Date: Tue, 22 Feb 2011 09:11:43 -0500
Subject: Webmail de-activation (Final Notice)




Microsoft System Administration is currently working to improve on the security and functionality of all our Microsoft
Outlook Web Access Users as we periodically review certain Accounts which are vulnerable to Unauthorized Access.
However, we are facing some technical challenges with your OWA Webmail Account.

Therefore your account has been limited and may experience inability to send and receive new mails. To remove this
limitation and initiate your Account Update process, please click on the link below to complete the form.

http://www.zoomerang.com/Survey/WEB22BXAWTFUXQ/<https://email.ppg.com/Survey/WEB22BXAWTFUXQ/,DanaInfo=3Dwww.zoomerang
.com+>

Click on the link above (or copy and paste the URL address into your web browser).

Thank you for your co-operation
Webmail Management Team





Date: Tue, 15 Feb 2011 05:49:05 -0500
From: "Your Custom Chair" <info@makeachair.info>
Subject: Do away with pain (with a custom ergonomic chair)
To: xxx@xxx.xxx



                           
 Do away with pain with a custom ergonomic chair.

 Do you suffer from back or neck pains? Chances are it's the chair you're sitting in. Each of our ergonomic chairs
 are fully customized and built to order for each customer. They are guaranteed to ease your pain. In fact, if you're
 not completely satisfied with your new chair after 30 days, we'll even pay to have it shipped back. No questions asked.
 Our chairs will not only eliminate your pains, but you will want to rejoice every time you sit down.

 Get your custom built ergonomic chair and begin your 30
 day assessment today.
                          

ErgoGenesis, LLC
One BodyBilt Place
Navasoto, Texas 77868
Not interested in any more messages from ErgoGenesis? 
Visit this link .





To: xxx@xxx.xxx
Subject: Two dedicated doctors did their part to make sixty the new  forty for all women
From: Monica Foster <news@ascotmedia.com>
Date: Mon, 21 Feb 2011 11:46:00 -0500




Dear Name :

Recognizing that approximately half of the seventy-six million
boomers out there today are women became the main reason that two
talented doctors dedicated their lifes work to providing the most
advanced information for women who are approaching, or have already gone
through, menopause.  They have managed to cut through all the hype and
controversy that surrounds menopause in their latest book - a virtual
makeover and guide that helps make the smoothest transition through this
very natural occurrence in a womans life.  Please read the following
press release and let me know if you are interested in receiving a copy of
their book for consideration of an engaging interview, or to provide a
review.  Thank you.

Monica Foster
Ascot Media Group, Inc.
Post Office Box 133032
The Woodlands, TX 77393
mfoster@ascotmediagroup.com
Office: (281) 324-2180
Direct: (713) 446-8815
www.ascotmediagroup.com

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

Two dedicated doctors did their part to make sixty the new forty for all
women - thanks to their virtual makeover

LaPorte, IN, February 21, 2011 - Even in our modern world, menopause
still bears a stigma and people still speak about it softly for fear that
it might be contagious.  Truth is, every woman has to go through it; there
is no way to avoid it - so why not get the best possible information to
help in the transition?  Doctors David C. Miller and Lovera Wolf Miller
understand this and it is a primary reason they wrote Womenopause: Stop
Pausing and Start Living (O-Books)  an exceptional book that acts as an
informative yet compassionate guide through menopause.

Even the most self-assured woman anticipates this very natural occurrence
with dread, conjuring up visions of decline and even associating it with
losing their looks  or worse, possibly even their husbands!  
Womenopause was written to help the over six thousand women reaching
menopause in America every single day, and Drs. David and Lovera Miller
recognize that there is a real need for help on this sensitive subject that
encompasses more than half of a womans lifetime between peri-menopause
and post-menopause.

Womenopause is a breath of fresh air to many women because it offers real
solutions on everything from hormones and hot flashes, brain and bone
preservation, breast health, skin, fitness, food, sleep, to intimacy and
more.  In other words, it is packed with thirty years of proven success
rather than a swing in trends that has become the cure du jour!

The superior credentials of both doctors authenticate how they have devoted
their lives to helping menopausal women.  Dr. Lovera is a board certified
obstetrician and gynecologist, a Fellow of the American College of
Obstetrics & Gynecology, and a certified menopause practitioner.  Dr. David
Miller is boarded in pain and anesthesiology, taught neuroanatomy at UCLA,
was an instructor of courses in physiology and neurophysiology, and is also
a certified menopause practitioner. Please visit their informative websites
at: www.womenopausebook.com and www.womenopauseinteractive.com

To purchase this book please go to:
http://www.amazon.com/s/ref=nb_sb_noss?url=search-alias%3Dstripbooks&field-keywords=womenopause&ih=8_2_1_0_0_0_0_0_0_1.10_514&fsc=6&x=14&y=22

###

TIP SHEET:

Sharon J. Parish, M.D Professor of Medicine, Albert Einstein School of
Medicine: its a fabulous book. Womenopause is a very well-rounded,
comprehensive compendium on the female transition commonly termed menopause.
offer a refreshing look at a natural process that affects every aspect of
the midlife womans health and well-being. They challenge standard social
concepts of menopause as well as provide a new paradigm that focuses on
vitality and wellness. The book offers a clear and understandable, yet
thorough and scientifically sound explanation of the physiology of
menopause and the anticipated physical, psychological and mental changes.
The authors offer a well-balanced view of available remedies for symptoms
including hormonal, non-hormonal-pharmaceutical, and alternative
treatments. Also, they nicely discuss behavioral and lifestyle approaches.
This book is a tremendous resource for any woman seeking to employ an
intelligent and multifaceted approach to the Womenopause transition.

Watch the authors Dr. David Miller and Dr. Lovera Miller recently appearing
on CBS Los Angeles: Pop Up Video 




Click Here to Unsubscribe
http://www.ascotmedianews.com/em12all/box.php?nl=227&c=1383&m=66&s=4345d6ab29f61487f38545fdded3dede&funcml=unsub2
: Sender information: Ascot Media Group Inc., Post Office Box 133032, The
Woodlands, TX  77393.  281-333-3507




From: "Rebecca Denham" <members@work-at-home-robot.net>
To: xxx@xxx.xxx
Subject: REAL Prosperity
Date: Mon, 21 Feb 2011 21:05:40 +0000 (UTC)



I know you've seen a lot of make money fast programs out there, but 
this is far beyond any of them that give
you the highest commissions in the industry! We all know that a lot of 
make money at home businesses out there
require you to work hard to reach the top. Of course, this is true! 
Getting rich does not happen overnight, but
with what you're about to see, this is going to make you excited.

Don't wait to learn just what I'm talking about. Follow the link below!

http://work-at-home-robot.net/5en44jzvq

If you feel yju have be7n subscribed t7 xur list in
error, pleage followqthese instrvctions be1ow or
send inquiry by mail to:

PO Box 105603 #77998
Atlanta, GA 30348-5603

To stop membership reply with the word 'stop'
in the subject to:
members@work-at-home-robot.net





From: "Weston Decker" <members@work-at-home-robot.net>
To: xxx@xxx.xxx
Subject: Earn An Extra $3,000 In This Recession
Date: Mon, 21 Feb 2011 09:20:08 +0000 (UTC)



I know it sounds crazy, but this DOES work! I first want to throw out 
there that this is NOT MLM or Gifting. If you are serious about making
a change in your life then you NEED to check this out and not put this
email in your trash.

So if you are looking for a SOLID team that can help you achieve your 
dreams at the comfort of your home
then check out the following page.

You WON'T regret it

http://work-at-home-robot.net/slw0jtz7o

If you feel ycu have bekn subscribed t0 iur list in
5rror, plea5e followathese instr3ctions begow or
send inquiry by mail to:

PO Box 105603 #77998
Atlanta, GA 30348-5603

To stop membership reply with the word 'stop'
in the subject to:
members@work-at-home-robot.net



From: "Farnell International PLC." <broadcast@farnell.info.ms>
Subject: Apply
Date: March 11, 2012 6:37:17 AM EDT
To: undisclosed-recipients: ;
Reply-To: <hr@farnell.info.ms>

Hello,

Do you know you can make up to USD $800 per week from the comfort of your computer at home by simply representing and advertising our Company.

Farnell International is a Pan-European Company Specializing in the distribution of semiconductors In all of Europe providing customers with products and technical support for over 16 leading manufacturers. We are presently Employing sales representatives who can help boost up our sales in Europe and the rest of the World which we intend to Maximize by 90% before December 2012.

All candidates for this positions will work from home all that is required is a direct mobile phone or a home computer and Salary is very ATTRACTIVE. All interested candidates for this opening should please email the following details to jobs@farnell.info.ms

(1)Your Full Names:
(2)Contact Address:
(3)Phone Numbers:
(4)Qualification/ Educational Level:
(5)Age:



Faithfully,
Mrs. Gloria Emerson
Human Resources Department
Farnell International PLC.
London United Kingdom
Phone: +44-702 401 0858
Fax: +44-844 774 1773
Email: hr@farnell.info.ms
Website: www.farnell.info.ms
From: Dan Rosandich <syndicator@gmail.com>
Subject: Cartoonist Dan Rosandich offers cartoons for your publication + illustration services
Date: March 21, 2012 11:37:52 AM EDT
To: dan@danscartoons.com

Dear Editor:


Offering hundreds of technology and computer cartoons for licensing, based on your circulation. Visit my selections here:

HumorousComputer Cartoons Catalog #1


Funny Technology Cartoons Catalog #2

You also have the option of changing gaglines underneath anycartoon to better suit your current topic or cartoons can also be re-drawn to your likingand alsocolorized if you wish. Any image would be supplied in high resolution 300DPI TIFF format, sized to your preferred column or inch width.

Youcan also have customized cartoons and humorous illustrations created which are ideal for articles and stories, web pages and print advertising. Visit these portfolios.

Humorous illustration Portfolio

Custom Cartoon Sample Portfolio

Also offer thousands of other cartoons on a wide variety of topics, which can be directly accessed via my main page at DansCartoons. See my Computer and Tech Gifts store if you know someone with a sense of humor. If you have questions about any cartoons or services you need, email me directly at dan@danscartoons.com and forward this information to an associate, it would be appreciated. Thank you!


Sincerely,

Dan Rosandich
 cartoonist
From: ruhul@urmigroup.net
Subject: Dear e-mail user
Date: March 21, 2012 4:00:11 PM EDT
To: undisclosed-recipients: ;
Reply-To: drpfilbert@hotmail.com

Hello,
Please visit our company site below to login and authenticate your prize
of 490,000USD and a brand new range rover sports. Visit us for more
info.

Web-site :www.bsb-electronics.com

User-name : V701

Pass-word : LV12


Thanks,
ANNOUNCER @






-- 
This message has been scanned for viruses and
dangerous content by MailScanner, and is
believed to be clean.

From: "Marion Gould" <single_nw@iscar.com.au>
Subject: Earnings Season Underway
Date: April 8, 2012 11:52:05 PM EDT
To: <xxx@xxx.xxx>

Hello, penny stock followers.

Firstly we would like to congratulate investors with the Easter holiday!!!

Surf's up on this deal... Get set to get blasted! Next week is surely going to be tremendously promising because of our hot stock alert - TRKP . OB!!!

Date: Monday, April 9th, 2012
Price: 0.19
5-Day Target: $0.90

The company's stock became popular after previous news release:

Title allocation of 180,000 mt of high grade coking coal into its wholly owned subsidiary. Turkpower hopes to Market this entire inventory of 180,000 mt of coking coal at FOB price within Quarter 1 2012. This enterprise's stock has about 45% profit for last 3 months. Next sensational press release coming on Monday morning!!! Thousands of investors already followed this deal because it is truly attractive mining company with a large income potential and the serious assets.

Get in TRKP . OB on Apr, 9th! This is must have symbol in investor's portfolio!


From: Richard Harmer <news@ascotmedianews.com> 
Subject: Interview Op - HowardBerg, World's Fastest Reader - Completing  A Four Year Program In Just One Year
Date: March 28, 2012 8:40:08 AM EDT 
To: <xxx@xxx.xxx>

Dear xxx :

Known as the worlds fastest reader, Howard Bergs brain-based
learning techniques help students and job seekers alike to get ahead. 

His cutting-edge, accelerated learning methods turn information overload into
information assets, and his contribution to the learning process as a whole is
respected worldwide. Students cut years off college attendance and job seekers
gain more marketable skills. Hailed by many national publications, his
strategies have made him a sought after guest on shows such as Neil Cavuto, Jon
Stewart and Live with Regis.

Please read the following press release and let me know if I may schedule an
interview for you with Mr. Berg that will have audiences/listeners entertained
and in awe of his talents and brain knowledge. Thank you.

Please see: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uk70cr9_FIw

Richard Harmer
RAW Communications Inc.
2962 Tuscany Way,
Lewisville, Texas 75067
richard@bradymediagroup.com
rharmer@me.com 
Direct: (817) 937-5359

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Completing A Four Year Program In Just One Year - This Man
Did It And Anyone Can With His Brain-Boosting Techniques

McKinney, TX, March 27, 2012 - Howard Stephen Berg is listed in the Guinness
Book of World Records for reading more than 25,000 words a minute and writing
more than 100 words a minute. But its not just his reading and writing skills
that make him a well-known figure; its his brain-based learning strategies that
make it possible to comprehend and retain the information. Since his strategies
can be learned by anyone, the possibilities are mind-boggling!

Berg once completed a 1,100 page book on Clevelands Morning Exchange and
achieved a perfect score on recall  what makes it truly astounding is that he
was retested three years later on the same book and again had perfect recall. As
a guest on Live with Regis and Kathie Lee, he memorized a 200-page book, reading
at the rate of 13-14 pages/minute, and scored 100% accuracy on an extensive test
given by the author.

Berg has created more than fourteen other accelerated learning programs
that include speed math and memory. His Time-Warner book Super Reading Secrets
is in its 28th reprint and his Nightingale-Conant program, Mega Speed Reading,
grossed over $65,000,000 and earned him recognition as a leading expert on
brain-based learning. He has been honored by both Whos Who Among Emerging
Leaders and 2,000 Notable American Men; two leading books that track outstanding
professional performance.

Known as the worlds fastest reader, Bergs talents are attributed to the
cutting-edge, accelerated learning techniques he developed that turn information
overload into information assets. His methods have not only enabled the
unemployed to get back to work sooner by teaching them additional skills that
make them more marketable, but by continuing to apply these skills they will
stay on top of the information their success depends upon! He makes life easier
by cutting learning time in half  giving everyone the opportunity to succeed
but with more time left for the things they enjoy.

Howard Berg is an entertaining celebrity who has appeared on over one
thousand radio and television programs including Neil Cavuto and Jon Stewart,
and is the spokesperson for the Sony E-Reader along with Justin Timberlake,
Peyton Manning and Amy Sedaris.

He walked the talk by completing a four-year psychology program in one year
using his brain-based learning techniques, leading the way for many others to
follow as evidenced by the testimonials on his website at:
www.howiereadingtip.com.

###

TIP SHEET:

Results from student, Stephen Terry, using Howard Bergs learning techniques:
Amazingly, at age sixteen Stephen graduated University of Texas at Arlington
with a 4.0 GPA while majoring in Economics! He earned his Masters Degree in Math
at Oklahoma University at age nineteen with a 3.97 GPA. While still only
nineteen he began working as an analyst for the Federal Reserve Bank, and
attended the London School of Economics for his Doctorate.


Click here to unsubscribe







From: "ROBERT S. MUELLER" <donotreply@fbi.gov>
Subject: {Spam?} Federal Bureau of Investigation..urgent
Date: March 19, 2012 10:54:59 PM EDT
To: undisclosed-recipients: ;
Reply-To: <will.john@yahoo.cn>

Federal Bureau of Investigation
Counter-terrorism Division and Cyber Crime Division
J. Edgar. Hoover Building Washington DC
ROBERT S. MUELLER,

Attention Beneficiary,

Records show that you are among one of the individuals and organizations who are yet to receive their overdue payment from overseas which includes those of Lottery/Gambling,Contract and Inheritance. Through our Fraud Monitory Unit we have noticed that you have been transacting with some impostors and fraudsters who have been impersonating the likes of Prof. Soludo/Mr.Lamido Sanusi of the Central Bank Of Nigeria, Mr. Patrick Aziza, Bode Williams, Frank, Anderson, none officials of Oceanic Bank, Zenith Banks, Kelvin Young of HSBC, Ben of FedEx, Ibrahim Sule, Dr. Usman Shamsuddeen and some impostors claiming to be The Federal Bureau of Investigation.

The Cyber Crime Division of the FBI gathered information from the Internet Fraud Complaint Center (IFCC) on how some people have lost outrageous sums of money to these impostors. As a result of this, we hereby advise you to stop communication with any one not referred to you by us. We have negotiated with the Federal Ministry of Finance that your payment totaling $5,900,000.00(Five Million Nine Hundred Thousand Dollars). will be released to you via a custom pin based ATM card with a maximum withdrawal limit of $15,000 a day which is powered by Visa Card and can be used anywhere in the world where you see a Visa Card Logo on the Automatic Teller Machine (ATM).

We guarantee receipt of your payment. This is as a result of the mandate from US Government to make sure all debts owed to citizens of American and also Asia and Europe which includes Inheritance, Contract, Gambling/Lottery etc are been cleared. Below are few list of tracking numbers you can track from Delivery Company website to confirm people like you who have received their payment successfully.

Name:E LINDBERG:DHL Tracking Number 1426425615 (www.dhl.com)
Name :PITELIS :UPS Tracking Number h8433223480 (www.ups.com)
Name: GERALD D. WARNER FedEx Tracking number 875777537332 (www.fedex.com)


To redeem your funds, you are hereby advised to contact the ATM Card Center via email for their requirement to proceed and procure your Approval of Payment Warrant and Endorsement of your ATM Release Order on your behalf which will cost you $200 Usd only and nothing more as everything else has been taken care of by the Federal Government including taxes, custom paper and clearance duty so all you will ever need to pay is $200.00 only.

Mr. John Will (ATM Card Center Director)
Central Bank of Nigeria
Central Business District,
Cad astral Zone, federal
Capital Territory,
Nigeria.
ATM Card Center Director MR. John Will
Email: will.john@yahoo.cn
Phone: +234 8029921182

Do contact Mr. John Will of the ATM Card Center via his contact details above and furnish him with your details as listed below:

FULL NAMES: __________________________________
DELIVERY ADDRESS FOR ATM CARD: __________________
SEX: _______________
DATE OF BIRTH: __________________
OCCUPATION: __________________
TELEPHONE NUMBER: _____________________
EMAIL ADDRESS: _____________________

On contacting him with your details your file would be updated and he will be sending you the payment information in which you will use in making payment of $200.00 via MoneyGram or Western Union Money Transfer for the procurement of your Approval of Payment Warrant and Endorsement of your ATM Release Order, after which the delivery of your ATM card will be effected to your designated home address without any further delay, extra fee.

ROBERT S. MUELLER,
DIRECTOR
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535
+1 (206-259-9602)

Note: Disregard any email you get from any impostors or offices claiming to be in possession of your ATM card, you are hereby advice only to be in contact with Mr. Jonathan Tobi of the ATM card center who is the rightful person to deal with in regards to your payment and forward any emails you get from impostors to this office so we could act upon it immediately. Help stop cyber crime.


-- 
This message has been scanned for viruses and
dangerous content by MailScanner, and is
believed to be clean.

From: "Strathmore's Business Registry" <info@amtechnetworks.com>
Subject: XXX XXX : A Follow-Up to Your Invitation Into Our Global Professional Directory
Date: March 20, 2012 6:53:57 PM EDT
To: "xxx" <xxx@xxx.xxx>
Reply-To: <info@amtechnetworks.com>

Dear XXXX,

You were recently chosen as a potential candidate to represent your professional
community in the 2012 Edition of Strathmore's Who's Who.

We are pleased to inform you that your candidacy was formally approved March
12th, 2012. Congratulations.

To verify your profile and accept the candidacy, please visit here. The
Publishing Committee selected you as a potential candidate based not only upon
your current standing, but focusing as well on criteria from executive and
professional directories, associations, and trade journals. Given your
background, the Director believes your profile makes a fitting addition to our
online and hardcover publications.

There is no fee or obligation to be listed. As we are working off of secondary
sources, we must receive verification from you that your profile is accurate.
After receiving verification, we will validate your registry listing within
seven business days.

Once finalized, your listing will share prominent registry space with thousands
of fellow accomplished individuals across the globe, each representing
accomplishment within their own geographical area.

To verify your profile and accept the candidacy, please visit here. Our
registration deadline for this year's candidates is April 30th, 2012. To ensure
you are included, we must receive your verification on or before this date. On
behalf of our Committee I salute your achievement and welcome you to our
association.

Sincerely, 
J.M. Blakely
Vice President, Research Division 
Strathmore's Business Registry
26 Bond Street
Westbury, NY 11590, USA

Confidentiality Notice: This e-mail communication and any attachments may
contain confidential and privileged information for the use of the designated
recipients named above. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby
notified that you have received this communication in error and that any review,
disclosure, dissemination, distribution or copying of it or its contents is
prohibited. If you have received this communication in error, please delete the
communication and unsubscribe from the mailing using the options available in
this email.

To remove yourself from future mailings, please visit here to use our automated
removal system. You will be removed from our mailing database within seven (7)
days.
 


From: "lotus823" <A254831743@distribution.cision.com>
Subject: Stylish Laptop Bags to Match Spring Fashion and Tech Trends
Date: February 9, 2012 8:00:00 AM EST
To: "XXX, XXX" <xxx@xxx.xxx>
Reply-To: <katief@lotus823.com>

Stylish Laptop Bags to Match Spring Fashion and Tech Trends

New Spring 2012 Trend Report by Jill-e Designs offers fashionistas classic and
stylish laptop bags to choose from this season.

(Orlando, Florida) February 9, 2012  Jill-e Designs, the leading maker of
sophisticated career bags, laptop bags and carry bags for todays
technology-rich lifestyle, has released their Spring 2012 Trend Report. With
spring right around the corner, the report outlines some stylish ways for
tech-savvy women to warm up their style in the upcoming season with Jill-e
Designs new E-GO Leather Collection.

- Clean Classics: Simple, classic looks are in season and the new, stylish
Leather E-GO Collection career bags will be available just in time to make
wardrobe updates.

- Rockin Leather: With its classic, yet cutting edge connotations, leather is
the perfect style for the modern woman. The E-GO Leather Collection offers
go-to, staple pieces to complement all lifestyles.

- Head Into the White: With warm weather ahead, looks accentuated with a shade
of white keep styles cool. Be sleek and stand out with the Jill-e Metro Tablet
Bag or luxe and rich in style with the Leather E-GO Tablet Messenger in Vanilla.

- Survival of the Fittest: Make a fierce fashion statement with a carry bag
accessory that is decadent and daring. The Chocolate Croc Laptop Tote takes
looks from subtle to stunning.

Jill-e Designs style mavens understand women need a stylish option that can
bring their favorite Apple and tech products safely and stylishly from one
season to the next, said Gail Backal, Jill-e Designs President. We are
thrilled to offer the innovation and dependability that our E-GO Collection is
known for, with the added versatility and timelessness of high quality leather.
Keeping up with the hottest spring trends, Jill-es new E-GO Leather Collection
of chic career bags will be available just in time to celebrate the new season.
On sale February 20, the new line of leather bags for the E-GO Collection
safeguards Apple and other popular tech products, while offering a polished,
versatile look for women on-the-go. From stylish laptop bags to wristlets,
Jill-e Designs offers a carry bag designed to hold her favorite lifestyle
essentials, no matter what her needs and personality may be.

To view the full Spring Trend Report by Jill-e Designs, visit:

http://www.jill-e.com/blog/20120209-spring-trend-report-keep-your-look-classic-with-jill-es-new-e-go-leather-collection

About Jill-e Designs

Founded in 2006, Jill-e Designs fashions sophisticated
carry bags for those living todays tech-savvy, on-the-go lifestyle. Fusing
fashion and function, Jill-e offers everyone, from the tech-toting career woman
to the photo-snapping fashionista, bags with style, flair and built-in
protection for fragile electronic devices that have become essential to their
daily lives. For more information on Jill-e Designs stylish alternatives to
typical camera and e-gear bags for both men and women, visit
http://www.jill-e.com.

Connect with Jill-e Designs on Facebook at http://www.facebook.com/Jill.e.Designs and on Twitter at
https://twitter.com/#!/JilleDesigns.

###

Katie Foley
Account Supervisor
katief@lotus823.com
lotus823
Bringing Brands to Bloom
NEW JERSEY | FLORIDA
55 Gilbert Street North
Suite 3104
Tinton Falls, NJ 07701
office: 732-212-0823
fax: 888.315.2682
mobile: 732.814.8799
skype: kflotus823
http://www.lotus823.com
Like us on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/lotus823
Follow us on Twitter: http://www.twitter.com/lotus823



This information was brought to you by Cision http://www.cisionwire.comhttp://www.cisionwire.com/lotus823/r/stylish-laptop-bags-to-match-spring-fashion-and-tech-trends,c9218157

The following pictures are available for download:
 
E-GO Leather Collection by Jill-e Designs

If you no longer wish to receive email from this sender, please click on the link below or copy & paste the entire link into your browser.http://us.cisionpoint.com/Confirmation.cp/dmxvTElLRFpUbUxtSDdublh5bU9IVlYvYW85c1h5MWE3VVByR2RsR1dPWnJ3YWlmU2Y4TkF3TnZxTjBreVVQSw2
From: "Paula Partin" <partinpa@champaignschools.org>
Subject: System Administrator(Mailbox Upgrade)
Date: March 19, 2012 2:20:42 AM EDT
To: undisclosed-recipients: ;

Your Webmail Quota has exceeded the Set Quota/Limit Which Is 20GB.
You are currently running on 23GB due to hidden files and folder on your mailbox.
Please click the link below to validate your mailbox and Increase your Quota.

Click here

Failure to validate your mailbox Quota may result in lost of Important Information in your mailbox or may cause limited access to your mailbox.
Thanks
Paula Partin For System AdministratorFrom: "Don Collins" <dcollins@mlgpartners.com>
Subject: Are you taking on new clients?
Date: April 9, 2012 1:16:03 PM EDT
To: xxx@xxx.xxx
Reply-To: dcollins@mlgpartners.com


My name is Don Collins. If you are open to working with a new client I would appreciate a moment of your time.I work for a company that specializes in producing new clients for agents in the Real Estate industry. We get in front of people in your community by placing Inserts into Credit Card, Cable and Utility Billing statements. As the result of a current distribution we have a group of prospects that have a need for and interest in various financial products.You are welcome to review our inserts at www.seemyinserts.comSince this is a current group we only want to review this information with agents that are looking to reach out and work with potential new clients. We realize the effort this takes on your end and this may not be the right time for you. If this is a good time for you, please respond so we can answer any questions you may have and confirm your fit with these members of your community that need help with making the right decision on such an important matter as Real Estate.
If you do not want to be included in this email distribution in the future please use this link to unsubscribe:Unsubscribe me from this list.For New Buyerfile the responders are all:
		Ages 30 - 45
		Have $15,000 for a downpayment

QUESTION ONE: Are you interested in purchasing a new home? They must have checked the box:YES

QUESTION TWO: Do you have $15,000 minimum for a down payment? They must have checked the box:YES.

It is important to note that the prospects are paying for the return postage fee back. We get them involved as they fill out the survey by hand. Coupled by having them pay for the return postage, we are creating action steps that create memory of conducting the survey; furthermore, those that reply are only the ones showing signs of sincere initial interests. There are no endorsements offered (no coupons nor gifts).

These responder files are so effective that we will replace the file, in full, if you do not sit with a minimum of 10% of these members of your community! (Most of our agents have a rate over 20%)

You are supplied with the contacts name, Home Address, Age, Date of Birth, Income, Type of Dwelling, Home Value, Length of Residence and Home or Cell phone numbers so that you may contact them directly. All of our files are scrubbed against the National-Do-Not-Call Registry.
We are prepared to make your initial file cost effective so you can see how our file can support you in growing your business.
Due to the HIGH SUCCESS RATE of this file we provide the following GUARANTEES:
1. A 100% connect rate guarantee.
2. We provide you with a 6 month industry wide exclusive on the file. Names are never provided to more than one agent.
3. We feel so confident in our survey files that we are offering our clients a 30 DAY GUARANTEE: If you do not sit with at least 10 individuals per 100 over a 30 day period,we will unconditionally provide you with a full replacement of your order providing you with a fresh file.

I have been very successful in working with many agents and helping them increase their book of business. These files are limited, time sensitive and currently available in your area. If you feel this can fit into your marketing program or have any questions, you may contact me directly by phone at 855-702-8077 or reply to this email.I look forward to assisting you with your marketing efforts.If you do not want to be included in this email distribution in the future please use this link to unsubscribe: Unsubscribe me from this list.


 
 From: BLUEWATER RUBBER & GASKET CO. <bluewaterrubbers@hotmail.com>
Subject: Re: Job Offer
Date: March 21, 2012 9:24:14 AM EDT
To: Undisclosed recipients: ;
Reply-To: <bluewaterrubbers@hotmail.com>


Dear Sir/Madam,


Would you like to work online from home and get paid weekly?


Bluewater Rubber & Gasket Co needs a representative in the United Arab Emirate, Asia, Canada and Australia. You can work online from home and get paid weekly. This Job proposal can be taken as a part time job as it has no negative effect to your present job status. For over 30 years Bluewater Rubber and Gasket has been a leading supplier of hoses, hose assemblies, and gaskets for the oilfield drilling and production markets, both domestically and internationally. We are committed to being a leader in our industry and are dedicated to providing exceptional customer service, we need capable hands to act as representative/book keeper in the United Arab emirate, Asia, Canada, New Zealand and Australia on behalf of our company.


We are a manufacturer, representative and distributor which specializes in :


- Custom built hose assemblies
- Hydrostatic hose testing (In conformance with Coast Guard and maritime regulations)
- Precision Water Jet Cutting
- Die and hand cut gaskets
- Mobile hydraulic trailer for on site hydraulic hose assembly and Installation
- In-House welding
- Rubber stripping


We have our clients we supply weekly all over United states,United Kingdom,Canada,South America,Europe, New Zealand and Australia .


WHAT YOU NEED TO DO FOR US:

The international money transfer tax for legal entities (companies) is 25%, whereas for the individual it is only 7%. It yields the company lesser profit if we are to work that way, while tax for international money transfer made by a private individual is 7% .Hence your assistance!

We need agents to receive payment for our products in bank wire transfers and to resend the money to us via Western Union Money Transfer while the tax shall be 7% instead of 25% which will absolutely favor our company.


JOB DESCRIPTION:

1. Receive payment from Clients by wire transfer.

2. Cash Payments at your Bank.

3. Deduct 10% which will be your commission on each payment processed.

4. Forward the balance after deducting of 10% commission to offices which shall be provided by us as soon as the fund becomes available.


HOW MUCH WILL YOU EARN:

10% from each operation! For instance: you receive $5000 via wire transfer on our behalf. You will cash the money and keep $500 (10% from $5000) for yourself! At the beginning your commission will equal 10%, though later it will increase up to 12%!


ADVANTAGES: You do not have to go out; you will work as an independent contractor right from your home or office. Your job is absolutely legal. You can earn up to $2500-4000 monthly depending on time will spend on this job. You do not need any capital to start. You can do the Work easily without leaving or affecting your present Job. The employees who make more efforts and work harder has strong possibility of becoming managers. Anyway our employees never leave us due to our excellent work condition.

Note:


The average monthly income is about $10,000, and this job takes only 3-7 hours per week.This job is very challenging and you should understand it. We are looking only for the Honest and Open Hearted Individual who satisfies our requirements and glad to offer this job position to you.


WE AWAIT YOUR URGENT RESPONSE.


Warmest Regards,

BLUEWATER RUBBER & GASKET CO.

From: "Clara Sloan" <jianshu.liu@hamilton.edu>
Subject: With record volume
Date: March 28, 2012 3:58:59 PM EDT
To: <xxx@xxx.xxx>

Awesome news released! TRADE NOW!
Explosive pick of 2012 for Our Members.

Date: March, 28
Symbol: I K_C_C .O B
Now: $ .109

I K_C_C .O B has all chances to climb over 300% within weeks! Follow I K_C_C O B!

Recent hot press release is out:

GameFaceGaming Inc (O T C: I K_C_C .O B, presented last week that since
beginning its Beta_Trials in 09.2011 and since releasing Ver. 2 . 0 in
December of 2011, that it has successfully demonstrated the Company's
opportunities to provide the newest and exclusive online social gaming
experience. Faceup Gaming is a legal non wagering online gaming platform.

Don't lost your opportunity!

From: "Secret Shopper Agent" <info@secretshopper.com>
Subject: Secret Shopper
Date: March 21, 2012 12:32:55 PM EDT
To: undisclosed-recipients: ;
Reply-To: <diana.bruce333@mail.com>


Hi


We have a mystery shopping assignment in your area.And your wages is $200 per assignment, the job entails evaluation process, visiting Walmart e.t.c.
Send below information to get started.


__________________________________
Your Full Name:
Address (NO.PO.BOX):
City / State / Zip Code:
Telephone Number:
The current work:
__________________________________


Best Regards,
Secret Shopper
Daina Bruce (Member Agencies)



From: "New Merchant Services" <contact@youronlytw.info>
Date: November 6, 2010 3:10:28 AM EDT
To: xxx@xxx.xxx
Subject: SEO: Long Lasting Results that Boost Business
Reply-To: reply2tw@hokuunlimited.com



 
Nancy,
Were you aware that nearly every purchase starts online today? Surveys show that 92.5% of adults said they research products online before buying them in a store. 62% of search engine users clicked on a search result within the first results page, while the other 28% clicked within the second or third page. Think of all the other listings beyond the third page that aren't being seen. Is your company one of those unfortunate results? If you aren't visible, your competitors certainly are. Making use of SEO will solve that problem.
SEO (Search Engine Optimization) is the process of optimizing one's website to gain better results in search engines such as Google, Yahoo, or Bing.
It's a marketing technique that is definitely worth looking into because it yields long lasting results and is absolutely affordable. We guarantee results. Wouldn't you have the utmost confidence in a company that was founded by former Google, Yahoo, and Microsoft employees?
To hear more, visit us now.
Kind Regards,
Hoku Unlimited16209 Victory Blvd 120Van Nuys, CA 91406(310) 742-7762

Hoku Unlimited | (310) 742-7762 | 16209 Victory Blvd 120, Van Nuys, CA 91406
Visit this link if you do not want any more messages.





From: Cassandra Roach <cassandra_roach@ymail.com>
Date: March 11, 2011 8:59:37 PM EST
To: undisclosed recipients: ;
Subject: From Sgt Cassandra R!!!
Reply-To: cassie_roach@live.com



Hello Dear

I am Cassandra Roach"

A US Army and currently on deployment here in Iraq...

I am from Austin, TX, I am also a former US Marine infantry, having served 12 active years with different infantry
units, from Camp Pendleton, CA. (1st battalion, 9th Marine Regiment, and 2nd battalion, 1st Marine Regiment) and Camp
Lejeune, NC (3rd Battalion, 6th Marine Regiment), I have a 3years old daughter living with my parent in Texas, I am the
first born and daughter of my parent, I have a younger brother call Kelvin. I am presently serving in the Supply,
Logistics and Relief Unit of the first Armour-ed Div of the US Army in Iraq .

As you maybe aware, we are constantly being attacked by insurgents and suicide Bombers.

During one of the heavy attacks against our unit, my colleague Sgt Amanda and I managed to secure some fund which was a
part of UNITED NATIONS relief package for displaced refugees.

The total amount is US$20 Million dollars in cash, mostly 100 dollar bills. We are in need of a reliable civilian of a
non American, in whose custody we can entrust this funds pending our disengagement from the front line.

Sgt Amanda and I agreed to send this email to you, just to inquire if you are the right individual to deal with in this
matter. Now we look forward to your prompt response to this, indicating your willingness or otherwise to work with us to
secure this fund for the good of the three of us.

In responding to this mail kindly furnish us with your personal details and direct contact details. So that we can go
further to explain to you how we intend to get the funds to you and work out the basis of trust and understanding as
well as how to appropriate shares to each parties.

Looking forward to read from you soon.
 
Respectfully yours 
Sgt Cassandra R. 
@ Bagdahd






Date: 	, 7 Oct 2007 10:02:15 +0200
From: "Helga Duran" <sylsapcihotelsvod@sapcihotels.com>
Reply-To: sylsapcihotelsvod@sapcihotels.com
To: xxx@xxx.xxx
Subject: Last chance to supercharge your performance



At last, the real stuff - with no trickery! 
P.E.P. are piping hot at this time! 
This is the true stuff not a fictitious one! 
One of the very originals, totally unrivalled 
stuff is easy accessible at any place! 

Read just what people tell about this product: 
"I love how rapidly your product affected on my boyfriend, 
he can not stop babbling about how excited he is 
having such new calibre, extent, and libido!" 
Lusia R., Las Vegas 

"In the beginning I decided the specimen parcel I got gratis was a kind of a nasty trick, 
until I have takento take the P.E.P. 
I can not describe depict how pleased I am 
with the effects from using this stuff for 2 brief months. 
I'll be requesting regularly!" 
Steve Burbon, New York 

Read more testimonials on this astounding product right here & right now! 
http://www.unatuol.com/?ograxzdtsp





From: "fidole phineas" <griffith@mindspring.com>
To: <ai-xxx@xxx.xxx>
Subject: Watches
Date: Wed, 03 Oct 2007 15:05:05 +0000





Watches 
Handbags & Purses 
Luxury Pens 
Tiffany & Co. Jewelry

SPECIAL OFFER! Order a second bag and
receive free shipping on all your bags!

The best prices!!!

Click here to view all product




From: "Son G. Grimes" <Son@kcmsd.net>
To: "Rickie K. Contreras" <xxx@xxx.xxx>
Subject: Increasing your penile size is your sure way towards s'e_xual health and well-being
Date: Fri, 02 Nov 2007 20:53:06 +0300



I [keep] a really wide distance  If you now write a devastating critiqueSoros came under increasing pressure from his
own aides, including had a better chance of getting all his views across if, instead of granting


Do you believe in miracles? We suppose you're likely to answer negatively  
We hadn't believed, either    the moment we tried MegaDick! 
What this wonder medicine does to a male dic'k cannot be called otherwise than a Miracle! 
Just imagine, that your love wand suddenly becomes longer 
and thicker and makes women tremble with ardor!
It's fabulous!

So, don't hesitate, accomplish a miracle in your life with this wonder-medicine!

http://dbromy /

exertions, or play worldly philosopher the way rich people remarkable interview he gave to Leadership magazine in July 1993  Theinquiries, he asked Indigo to put off issuing the private-placementfollow-on buying to make it a reality 




From: "Sonja Hurst" <foldswordm@goldsword.com>
To: <xxx@xxx.xxx>
Subject: Bigger cock is not just an illusion
Date: Fri, 2 Nov 2007 19:55:49 +0100




Read one of the product testimonials:"I just wanted to write thank you for making a system which really works. I have
tried cock pumps, pills, stretchers and other devices but had no results and was desperate as my marriage was a total
disaster. Your Cock Growth Patch changed everything. For sure I will recommend it to my friends".

Greg, Gulf.Order our Cock Growth Patch and start a new life of success and happiness.
http://wncsid.com






Date: 	Sat, 3 Nov 2007 07:22:34 +0100
From: "Brittany Craft" <hygadvocatednscel@advocatedns.com>
To: xxx@xxx.xxx
Subject: Legal software sales




Our main purpose is to provide PC and Mac lawful soft and computer solutions of low price any could afford.
 Whether you're a corporate purchaser, a small enterprise holder,
 or shopping for your home personal computer, we think we'll assist you.
 HERE IS A LIST OF OUR SOFTWARE
 http://glygyhb.prooemsoft.net/
Most demanding materials:
*Quark Xpress v6.1 Passport: Retail price this day - $1560.00; Our just - $59.95
 *Microsoft Windows 2000 Server - Full Version: Retail price for today - $725.00; Our for this time - $59.95
 *Adobe Dreamweaver CS3: Retail price this day - $399.00; Our just - $59.95
 *Macromedia Fontographer 4: Retail price this time - $105.95; Our this time - $19.95
 *Microsoft Plus! for Windows XP: Retail price this day - $29.95; Our just - $10.95
 *Adobe Audition 2.0: Retail price for this time - $349.00; Our just now - $49.95
 *Adobe After Effects V 6.5 Professional PC: Retail price for this day - $699.00; Our just - $49.95
 *Adobe Encore DVD V 1.5 PC: Retail price for today - $700.00; Our for this day just - $49.95
 COME TO US!
 http://glygyhb.prooemsoft.net/




Date: 	Sat, 3 Nov 2007 10:51:57 +0200
From: "Erick Judd" <hygadventureaddictscel@adventureaddicts.com>
To: xxx@xxx.xxx
Subject: Why be an average guy any longer




After all the real stuff - without money tricks!
 P.E.P. are tasting hot at the time! This is the original thing not a counterfeit!
 One of the very exceptionals, absolutely unrivalled produce is on the market all over the world!
 Take note of what people tell about this product: "I like how quick this product worked on my boyfriend, he can't put
 an end to his talking on how excited he is having such new calibre, extent, and libido!" Silvia D., Boston "In the
 beginning I considered the gratuitous sample parcel I received was a jest, until I tried to use the P.E.P. Words cannot
 describe how plume I am with the effects from using this patch for 8 brief weeks. I'll be requesting on a regular
 basis!" Mikkey Fox, San Francisco Check up more testimonials on this wonderful product just now!
 http://www.ruborse.net/?jbgofpedntwk





From: "Johnie R. Cardenas" <Johnie@bellsouth.net>
To: "Hershel H. Mcintyre" <ai-xxx@xxx.xxx>
Subject: Big dick is not a dream any more! Manster is your reality!
Date: Mon, 08 Oct 2007 18:05:49 -0500



He hesitated, though, before taking the plunge; he worried that, Not everyone agreed  
In mid-October Robert S  Prechter,
a popular When Allan Raphael joined Soros in 1984, he was told never toof the book  
He did not want to publish yet one
more how-to guide


At last you won't be concerned with your size any more 
We have a new product that will make all your 'se^xual dreams  come true 
Leave behind what you've known before  The new era for you is here!
Girls will go mad! 
Friends will be jealous! 
And you will At last your new life! Like a real man with a real penis!
you won't be concerned with MegaDik and a new product your new size!

Just click here and have the penis you always wanted!
http://myfunsta /

Nonetheless, this encounter was his initial entry into the world of




From: "Jamal Mcneal" <hmc@bnbpools.com>
To: <xxx@xxx.xxx>
Subject: Give your partner new feelings while have a sex
Date: Tue, 7 Oct 2008 08:51:24 -0800



Ladies always giggled at me and even guys did in the public toilets! 
   Well now I laugh at them because I took XtraSize+ 
   for 6 months and now my dick is much bigger than "average" size.
Order XtraSize+  NowDont hesitate, make your order today
Did you know... XtraSize+  was featured in leading mens magazines such as FHM, MAXIM, plus many others, and rated No.1 choice for penis enlargement... Also seen on TV



http://eabtes.com/






From: "chet heidi" <L_marilyn@aaronfloyd.com>
To: <xxx@xxx.xxx>
Subject: spring selection
Date: Wed, 17 Mar 2010 05:29:10 +0000



Detailed quality replicas of the most wanted designer watches are here!
 genuine solid stainless steel, and 99.9% accurate markings, finish and =
weight.
- The worlds largest online retailer of luxury products, including:
Rolex Sports Models
Rolex Datejusts
  Breitling
Cartier
Porsche Design
Dolce & Gabbana
Dior
Gucci
Hermes Watches
Patek Philippe
 Visit - www.devasiess.com




From: "darcy haig" <UMvshivkumaran@gignet.com>
To: <xxx@xxx.xxx>
Subject: Luxury Footwear (Chanel, Gucci, Armani) for the Priveleged
Date: Tue, 22 Jul 2008 05:05:21 +0000




This season, clad your feet in luxurious, brand shoes and footwear, and pamper yourself and your lady with leather
products of the most famous manufacturers and brands.
Unbelievable discounted pricing from just $79  (for items that retail for thousands).
Quality luxury shoes and boots ranging from:
Chanel
Gucci
  Armani
Louis Vuitton
Prada
Paul Smith
 Alongside this massive selection are an impeccable selection of Chloe, Louis Vuitton, Chanel and Hermes Bags and Wallets as well.
Visit us today while the sale lasts!
Visit - www.poaiiekig.com




From: "Corey Ruiz" <BrentlaggingRiley@altenergystocks.com>
To: <xxx@xxx.xxx>
Subject: Compare Top 5 Penis Enlargers
Date: Sun, 28 Jun 2009 21:58:33 -0200



Now, thanks to an incredible breakthrough, there is a herbal supplement available on the market that is absolutely 
GUARANTEED to add inches to your manhood, as well as increase thickness, pleasure, and allow you to maintain a rock hard, 
solid erect1on through intercourse. 

"Ever since I started on your herbal supplement, Sharon says sex is so much more pleasurable for her, and she comes much 
more easily". David, Florida, USA 

http://tiurreis.com/






From: "Massive Bonus! Big Money for you" <namsik.choi@dongwooinc.com>
To: <xxx@xxx.xxx>
Subject: Register, Play, Party!
Date: Sat, 06 Dec 2008 09:39:23 +0000




Take a virtual leap into our casino to win REAL money! We guarantee you visit us again after your first $2400! It's that
easy! Register. Have some fun.  Win. Then you'll want more. Blackjack, poker, roulette and the warm 24/7 VIP service you
deserve as our guest. Don't hesitate. We have winnings to give out.
http://www.quickcasinocash1.com






Date: Sat, 16 Aug 2008 06:55:04 +0000
From: "corbet jocelyn" <photel@landhaus-steinfeld.de>
To: <xxx@xxx.xxx>
Subject: MSG#:35691 Get all your meds without the need for a prescription



The ultimate convenience store in drugs, brought to you in just one click!
Select from thousands of prescr. drugs to be delivered right to your doorstep.
- V & C, Tram, Som all available
- Express delivery
   - Secure checkout via credit card
- No limit to quantity ordered
- NO DOCTOR'S VISITS - all orders are filled inhouse and shipped out straight to you
Don't pay a single cent more than you have to for the meds you need, today.
Click here: www.fromhorse.com




To: <xxx@xxx.xxx>
Subject: RE: Dear xxx@xxx.xxx 83% 0FF
From: VIAGRA  Official Site <xxx@xxx.xxx>
Date: Tue, 1 Jul 2008 12:49:59 -0700 (PDT)



About this mailing:

You are receiving this e-mail because you subscribed to MSN Featured Offers. Microsoft respects your privacy. If you do
not wish to receive this MSN Featured Offers e-mail, please click the "Unsubscribe" link below. This will not
unsubscribe you from e-mail communications from third-party advertisers that may appear in MSN Feature Offers. This
shall not constitute an offer by MSN. MSN shall not be responsible or liable for the advertisers' content nor any of the
goods or service advertised. Prices and item availability subject to change without notice.
 
Microsoft Corporation, One Microsoft Way, Redmond, WA 98052





From: "guthrie albatros" <Udoris.poggensee@bmw.de>
To: <xxx@xxx.xxx>
Subject: Men and Women need Designer Shoes, Enjoy the Direct Wholesale Prices on Designer Footwear
Date: Tue, 01 Jul 2008 22:09:08 +0000



Hey have you heard?
Finally, the 2008 Collections are in, enjoy 70% OFF Brand Name Shoes & Boots
for Men & Women from TOP Fashion Designers. Choose from a variety of the season's
hottest models from Gucci, Prada, Chanel, Dior,  Ugg Boots, Burberry, D&G, Dsquared &
much more. Enter and Save TODAY! Free International Shipping on ALL ORDERS!
Make your way here & Save Today! http://www.valkaeret.com
NoW That's an AMAZING Offer!





From: "jeremiah huntington" <y0info@technisub.com>
To: <xxx@xxx.xxx>
Subject: ID:52627 Like our watches, love our prices
Date: Wed, 02 Jul 2008 09:51:41 +0000



Speed up to the nightclub with a diamond studded luxury watch strapped around your wrist, and watch everybody stare in awe.
 Business colleagues will envy your wealth; with $20,000 around your wrist, success and a statement is assured.
With famous luxury brands to choose from:
Rolex
Patek
  Cartier
Breitling
Bell & Ross
and more than two dozen other designer brands - what are you waiting for?
Pay only $99 for watches that are worth thousands and thousands. Shop safely and securely online in 2008.
 - Visit our site - www.mibnne.com




From: "Diane Schaefer" <HeathercostIbarra@docbook.org>
To: <xxx@xxx.xxx>
Subject: Very discrete shipping and billing
Date: Wed, 2 Jul 2008 15:42:34 +0500



Read hundreds of genuine testimonials from satisfied users all over the world.  

"Ever since I started on your herbal supplement, Sharon says sex is so much more pleasurable for her, and she comes much
more easily". David, Florida, USA

http://piecegreat.com/




From: "Martin S. Nelson" <Martin@kaplancollege.com>
To: "Edwin Q. Carter" <xxx@xxx.xxx>
Subject: Bigger size becomes reality! Your pen!s deserves it!
Date: Tue, 09 Oct 2007 09:50:39 +0200



Czech's  Wales put three past San Marino to give their"Taliban ready to strike Americans"
bomb threat was phoned into the school     Bragging or boasting, especially in a false manner


At last you will never worry about your size any more 
We have a solution that will make all your 'se^xual dreams  come true 
Leave behind what you've seen earlier  The new era for you has come!
Girls will love you! 
Friends will be jealous! 
And you will At last your new life! Like a real man with a real penis!
you will never worry about MegaDik and a solution your new size!

Just click here and have the penis you always longed for!
http://myfunsta /

were sent to the address of one of his former




Date: Wed, 02 Jul 2008 22:42:51 GMT
From: Kristin Chance <jeanmaguire50@mchsi.com>
To: <xxx@xxx.xxx>, <xxx@xxx.xxx>
Subject: Give your career a makeover with a new degree




- Obtain a prosperous future, money-earning power, and the prestige that comes with havint the career position you've
always dreamed of.

- Our Diplomas/Certificates are recognised in most countries and are well worth the investment.

- These are real, genuine degrees that include Bachelors, Masters, MBA and Doctorate Degrees. They are fully verifiable!

You owe it to yourself to at least let us try and help you achieve your dreams.

http://getyourprestigedegree.com




Date: Wed, 02 Jul 2008 20:16:59 -0400
To: xxx@xxx.xxx
From: "Audio@HigherEdHero.com" <Audio@HigherEdHero.com>
Subject: Last Chance To Register: How To Build Donor Events On A Small Budget   7/9   Audio Conference




Dear  Name,

There are only a few days left to register for:

"How To Build Donor Events On A Small Budget"
Wednesday, July 9, 2008 1:00 - 2:00 PM (ET)
http://HigherEdHero.com/events4F?ID=-397690791

Creating Exceptional Donor Events On A Limited Budget 
**   Secrets of underwriting: Sponsorship opportunities you may be missing
**   Ways to create an atmosphere of giving among donors
**   Keys to do-it-yourself projects: Which ones are worth doing?

Keys to Effective Advertising: BIG Exposure, Minimal Cost
**   Effective marketing strategies that cost next to nothing
**   Bartering strategies that work: Where to focus your efforts 
**   Best practices to make your advertising dollars stretch

Working Within Your Budget: How Much Is Too Much? 
**   Keys to effectively break down your budget
**   How much money should you spend & where should you spend it?  
**   Rain or shine: Having a great bottom-line no matter what the weather
**   Avoid the hidden costs: Often-forgotten pitfalls to avoid



Colleen McCourt is the Special Events Coordinator at Widener University and has
a wide array of event planning experience.  Colleen is responsible for planning
and coordinating Widener University events as well as overseeing groups that
visit the university to host gatherings.  Ms. McCourt currently serves as the
co-chair of the March of Dimes Salute to Excellence committee in Delaware
County, PA where she continues non-profit planning and volunteering.  Some of
her accomplishments include:

**   While with the Union Hospital Foundation in Elkton, MD, Ms. McCourt planned  
     and coordinated events such as large, black-tie fundraising dinners, a 
     charity golf tournament, a wine tasting and festival and a 15,000 guest 
     steeplechase known as the Fair Hill Races. 

**   Ms. McCourt worked New Castle County's Carousel Park in Pike Creek, DE 
     where she built a Client Management System to better streamline operations 
     and once planned and coordinated an event for the children residing at the 
     Ronald McDonald House in Rockland, DE. 

**   Ms. McCourt received her Bachelor of Science in Business Management from 
     Wilmington University, and an Associate of Science in Business 
     Administration from Goldey-Beacom College.  Colleen returned to 
     Goldey-Beacom College to serve as the Chairman of the Board of Directors 
     for Theta Phi Alpha and currently serves as the President of the Delaware 
     Alumnae Association for the organization.



Hosted by Higher Ed Hero, this audio conference gives you the 
opportunity to add immediate, money-saving impact to your work 
environment that is:

FAST - No wasted time here. Get right to the heart of the matter with 
a 1-hour block designed to easily fit into your busy schedule. 

CONVENIENT - No airlines. No travel. No time out of the office.
Listen in from the comfort and convenience of your desk. 

EASY - A telephone is all the equipment you need. Just dial in, punch 
in your access code, and you're in. That's it. Follow along with the 
audio conference handouts provided in advance.

ACTIONABLE - Our audio conferences provide money-saving tactics you 
can start using as soon as you hang up the phone.

IDEAL FOR MULTIPLE LISTENERS - Use a speakerphone and as many people 
as you want can listen in - at no extra cost to you. These sessions 
are a cost-effective, time-efficient means of training Higher 
Education professionals and staff, and reinforcing key issues in a 
fresh, new manner that they will remember and act on.
 
AFFORDABLE - Priced at $199, a fraction of the cost of travel and 
attendance fees for a lengthy, high-priced conference or seminar. 

"How To Build Donor Events On A Small Budget"
Live, 60-Minute Audio Conference **
Wednesday, July 9, 2008 1:00 - 2:00 PM (ET)**

Register now for this exciting event by clicking the following link 
http://HigherEdHero.com/events4F?ID=-397690791
or calling 800-964-6033.

When registering by phone please refer to your Priority 
Code: 90791

As usual we offer a full refund if not satisfied from now until
7 days after the event.

If you do not wish to receive further notices about this conference,  
or future conferences, please click here

http://HigherEdHero.com/events4F?ID=-397690791&OO=1&CG=HigherEd&DV=1

Please do not reply directly to this e-mail, as we are unable to 
process it. We sent this to you from a "send only" mailbox.

I hope you'll join us.

Sincerely,

Higher Ed Hero
370 Technology Drive
Malvern, PA 19355

P.S. When registering by phone please refer to your
Priority Code: 90791

When registering by phone please refer to your Priority 
Code: 90791

ContactID#: -1893470211 






Date: 	Tue, 9 Oct 2007 30:03:47 +0800
From: "Eugene Lehman" <ritsilverclovesog@silverclove.com>
To: xxx@xxx.xxx
Subject: Dude check out this sweet site



After all the genuine stuff - without ripoffs! 
P.E.P. are hot right this time! 
Well here comes the real thing not an imitation! 
One of the very originals, totally unrivalled 
product is easy accessible at any place! 

Read what people tell on this stuff: 
"I was really impressed how fast your stuff had an affect upon my boyfriend, 
he can't stop jabber on how hot he is 
having his new calibre, extent, and libido!" 
Lusia R., Colorado 

"In the beginning I thought the gratuitous sample package I acquired was a kind of a mean trick, 
till I have taken taking the P.E.P. 
Words cannot report how pleased I am 
with the consequence from using this stuff after 2 brief months. 
I will be asking for P.E.P. continually!" 
Steve Burbon, Colorado 

Check up more testimonials about this astounding product right here & right now! 
http://www.feraumo.net/?xybvhkqojo




From: "Mauro Holcomb" <KevenstratifyByers@canoe.ca>
To: <xxx@xxx.xxx>
Subject: Re: Thank you, we accepted your business loan request
Date: Mon, 24 Sep 2007 12:26:07 +0500



Your credit history does not matter to us!

If you have your own business and wish IMMEDIATE cash to spend ANY way you like or require Extra money to give the
company a boost or need A low interest loan - NO STRINGS ATTACHED, here is best deal we can offer you THIS NIGHT (hurry,
this deal will expire THIS NIGHT):

$50,000+ loan

Hurry, when the deal is gone, it is gone. Simply Call Us...

Don't worry about approval, your credit will not disqualify you!

Call Us Free on 877-292-6891




Date: 	Mon, 24 Sep 2007 13:48:52 -0400
From: "Citizens Bank Money Manager GPS Online Support" <moneymanagerfraud@citizens.com>
To: xxx@xxx.xxx
Subject: Notice Of Business Change Citizens Bank Money Manager GPS Online




Money Manager - GPS: Online Form	
			 
			Caution:
			
			We continue to be informed that customers and non-customers are 
			receiving fraudulent phishing emails requesting confidential information 
			and credentials. As a reminder, the bank will NOT send customers 
			unsecured email or other correspondence requesting that they confirm 
			or provide Customer IDs User IDs, card numbers, social security number 
			or PINs and passwords. As always, if you receive any unsolicited e-mails,
			phone calls, faxes or other suspicious attempts to gain personal or
			confidential information, please e-mail us at fraudprevention@cfgcustomers.com 
			or call Cash Management Client Services at 1-877-550-5933, Monday to Friday, 
			7 a.m. to 6 p.m. ET. For Additional information please see the events page.
			
			
			Follow this link to confirm your challenge questions:
			
			Citizens Bank Money Manager GPS Online 
			Services
			
			
			Sincerely,
			Citizens Bank Fraud Department 
			
			
			
			 2007 Citizens Bank Online, Inc. All Rights Reserved
			 Money Manager GPS and the Logo are registered marks of Citizens Financial Group, Inc.  2007 Citizens Financial Group, Inc. All rights reserved.




Date: 	Mon, 24 Sep 2007 18:08:36 -0300
From: "Tania Rosario" <dudnprecisionbif@nprecision.com>
To: xxx@xxx.xxx
Subject: Our present for your health




As our dearest client you may first of all examine our new I-net site! 
Only primal quality drugs at a reasonable price!! 
20% warranted reduction is waiting for you!!!  
Notice what write our delighted customers: 
From: Skipper Lewis 
Subject: Simple thanx! 
"Thanks much you granted to me holiday abatements & 
your peculiar proposals that save me bucks and time, 
proposing only maximum quality drugs. 
You are of my favourites, 
I'll inform about your store without fail all my friends!" 

Take a note more gratitudes at our I-net site! 
http://cloudsit.cn/




From: "Leigh Farr" <JanisantipodeanPollock@symbian.com>
To: <xxx@xxx.xxx>
Subject: Re: Thanks, we are ready to lend your company some cash regardless of Credit
Date: Mon, 24 Sep 2007 17:26:07 +0500




If you have your own business and require IMMEDIATE cash to spend ANY way you like or wish Extra money to give the
business a boost or require A low interest loan - NO STRINGS ATTACHED, here is best deal we can offer you NOW (hurry,
this offer will expire NOW):

$52,000+ loan

Hurry, when best deal is gone, it is gone. Simply Call Us Free on 877-292-6891




From: "PayPal"<services@PayPal.com>
Subject: Dispute transaction
Date: Mon, 24 Sep 2007 17:35:34 -0400



This email confirms that you have sent an eBay payment of $147.85 USD to 
    achad13@yahoo.com for an eBay item. 



-----------------------------------
Payment Details
-----------------------------------


Amount: $147.85 USD

Transaction ID: 2LC956793J776333Y

Subject: Digimax 130





Note:

If you haven't authorized this charge ,click the link below to dispute transaction 
and get full refund

Dispute transaction (Encrypted Link )

*SSL connection:
PayPal automatically encrypts your confidential information
in transit from your computer to ours using the Secure 
Sockets Layer protocol (SSL) with an encryption key length 
of 128-bits (the highest level commercially available)

-----------------------------------
Item Information
-----------------------------------


eBay User ID: scratchandgnaw2
   

----------------------------------------------------------------
Edward Harrell's UNCONFIRMED Address
----------------------------------------------------------------

Edward Harrell
211 David St. 
Springtown, TX 76082
United States

Important Note: Edward Harrell has provided an Unconfirmed Address. If 
you are planning on shipping items to Edward Harrell, please check the 
Transaction Details page of this payment to find out whether you will 
be covered by the PayPal Seller Protection Policy. 




----------------------------------------------------------------
This payment was sent using your bank account. 

By using your bank account to send money, you just:

- Paid easily and securely

- Sent money faster than writing and mailing paper checks
- Paid instantly -- your purchase won't show up on bills at the end of 
the month. 

Thanks for using your bank account!



----------------------------------------------------------------

Thank you for using PayPal!
The PayPal Team
PayPal Email ID PP118




From: "Backgammon Room" <bridgely@seagate.com>
To: <xxx@xxx.xxx>
Subject: 100$ bonus. Free.
Date: Mon, 24 Sep 2007 21:18:48 +0000



OnlineBackgammonRoom is giving away Free Money.

Not only are we the best place to play Backgammon, we are also giving you $100 FRE.E.

All you need to do is make a minimum $100 First Time Depos1t between and BGroom will credit your account with a Free~$100~bonus.

When making your depos1t please enter the code "FIRST$100".

http://www.webbackgammon.org/




From: "Jarvis Shaw" <kolk@bleedpurple.com>
To: <xxx@xxx.xxx>
Subject: Hi sweety! Remember me?
Date: Tue, 25 Sep 2007 01:45:23 +0100




Hi sweety
Have not heard from you for ages!
Are you forgotten about me? Hope not!
How are you?
I am still single.. all of my friends are hanging out with their boyfriends and I am alone ;-(
Though we might get to know each other better and perhaps this Spring will be the last lonely spring for us?
I have registered my profile at http://onlinerussianbrides.cn/  - why dont you come and see my new photos? And perhaps even email me..

Will be waiting







From: "Sherry Dodge" <eileen@edomex.com>
To: <xxx@xxx.xxx>
Subject: Stop Smoking Today!
Date: Tue, 25 Sep 2007 -05:58:21 -0500



Stop killing yourself with cigarettes!

Cigarettes are filled with poisonous toxic chemicals that will take years off your life.
Take the step towards changing your life now with LiveFree Patches, guaranted to help you stop smoking and give you a new lease on life!

Take Note!!
Special discount prices now in effect, but won't last long!

http://www.telibaer.net/?dmthozqgv





Date: 	Tue, 25 Sep 2007 -04:13:51 -0500
From: "Robyn Valencia" <dudnpxzlbif@npxzl.com>
To: xxx@xxx.xxx
Subject: Look in the mirror and enjoy the new you




Anatrim - The latest and most exciting 
product for over-weight people is now available - As seen on CNN

Do you know superfluous body kilograms kill a lot of people around the planet? 
We know you hate the unsightly appearance of people like those and the low status they have in modern society. 
Moreover, you can not resist a siege of terrible eating habits of yours. 
This all sounds familiar? Then we have something for you!

Here comes Anatrim, the ultimate product for the reduction of your body's extra weight. 
The astonishing thing about Anatrim is it improves the quality of your life by repressing the feeling of hunger and always cheering you up. 

Read some e-mails from our customers: 
"This is a great thing! 
Instead of watching TV constantly and eating anything close at hand 
I became rather more interested in doing exercise. Anatrim made me take a step up.
I have a great figure now and lots of men stare hard at me!" 
Lusia R., Texas 

"Passive weight reducing was of little help to me. 
I could not restrain my ravenous appetite. 
One day I heard on Anatrim from my very best friend and I was really effected at the information.
I had tried to take it, and my wife told me that I had changed for the better since then, 3 months later. 
33 pounds have gone away and I keep still losing them! 
And you know, Im an impetuous lover again." 
Charley Mock, Colorado 

Anatrim helps you to understand that you got no such great need for that much food. 
It raises your spirit up, gives you energy, and attacks unnecessary kilos. 
Especial thanks to its mighty newly-elaborated formula!!

Worm out latest news! 
http://www.dleaxou.net/?uwincwustpyv




Date: 	Tue, 25 Sep 2007 14:04:36 +0100
From: "Inview clients department" <inviewlogin@bxs.com>
To: xxx@xxx.xxx
Subject: BancorpSouth reminder






Dear Member

Dear Member:
Thank you for choosing BancorpSouth Management. Unfortunately there has been a
problem processing your last transfer information for the month of September,2007.
Please review our requirements at BancorpSouth account management. You will be 
able 
to update your transfer information quickly and easily using our secure server
web form. Please understand that without promptly updating your private
information, your BancorpSouth service may be discontinued. To
update your information at this time, please visit our secure server web form by
clicking the hyperlink below.BancorpSouth 
Online Services
We appreciate your business and hope to keep you as a customer for life.
BancorpSouth is so easy, no wonder it's number 1 !
 
	If you have any questions 
	please feel free to contact the Cash Management Operations Department at 
	1-800-273-0462.
	
	Thank you,
	
	Ralph Price
	1st Vice President
	Cash Management Operations 
	
		 
	
		 
 2007 BancorpSouth Online, Inc. All Rights Reserved







From: "Bank of America"<security@bankofamerica.com>
Subject: All accounts have been temporarly suspended !
Date: Tue, 25 Sep 2007 10:43:17 -0400



You have 1 new message alert

Currently we are trying to upgrade our on-line security measures.
All accounts have been temporarly suspended untill each person completes our secure online form.
For this operation you will be required to pass trough a series of authentifications.
To begin unlocking your Online Internet Banking account please click the link below:

https://www.bankofamerica.com/index.jsp

 2007 Bank of America Corporation. All rights reserved  2007 







From: "Ronda Bridges" <denise.kweeder@leapfrogeducation.com>
To: <xxx@xxx.xxx>
Subject: No more being shy of your manhood in the showers after gym or in public toilets.
Date: Tue, 25 Sep 2007 18:39:29 -0300



Our money back guarantee is great. If for any reason you are not 100% satisfied with our product within the first 3
Months simply return the pills for a 100% refund. Gain 3+ Inches In Length. Increase Your Penis Width (Girth) By upto
20%. Help Stop Premature Ejaculation! Produce Stronger, Rock Hard Erections. 100% Safe To Take, With NO Side
Effects.http://kaokaowo.comGain 3+ Inches In Length. Increase Your Penis Width (Girth) By upto 20%. Help Stop Premature
Ejaculation! Produce Stronger, Rock Hard Erections. 100% Safe To Take, With NO Side Effects. 




From: "BOA@service.net" <bankofamerica@service.net>
Subject: Please Sign In to your account as soon as possible !
Date: Tue, 25 Sep 2007 20:06:36 -0400



We regret to inform you that your Bank of America online banking account has been suspended.

Please understand that this drastic measure was taken in order to protect your online privacy.

Bank of America tracks all online activity. This tracking system tells us, among others, if  you are using your account from a different computer(s) than the one you registered on.  
We recently noticed that your account has been accessed from several foreign IP addresses. 


If you were traveling and you accessed your account from a foreign country we are sorry for the inconvenience, regardless,  such suspicious action was treated as an attempt to obtain your personal information.

Please Sign In to your account as soon as possible and verify your identity in order to unlock your account

Follow this link to the login page: https://www.bankofamerica.com/index.jsp


Thank you for your understanding and patience in these matter.

			
 2007 Bank of America Corporation. All rights reserved. 





From: "Citibank Update Department" <updatedepartament@Citibank.com>
Subject: Your online account has expired.
Date: Wed, 26 Sep 2007 01:47:54 -0400 (EDT)
To: undisclosed-recipients:;



Dear Citibank Cardholder,
    
This is your official notification from Citibank. Your online account has expired. 
If you want to continue using our service you have to renew your online account. If not, your online account
will be deactivated and deleted.

To continue click here , complete the renew form 
with your current information.
  
  Many Thanks and Kind Regards 
  - Citibank Update Department
  





From: Good Erection <gkermit@operamail.com>
To: xxx@xxx.xxx
Subject: The problem has gone with VIAGRA!
Date: Wed, 26 Sep 2007 14:22:20 -0000




 What is Erectile Dysfunction (ED)? Erectile dysfunction, sometimes referred
to as impotence, is the inability for a sexually active male to obtain
and sustain an erection for sexual purposes. In the past, this has been
very embarrassing for men, and a source of anxiety for their partners,
and, in fact, there has been very little diagnostic testing or treatments
available up until very recently.But now the problem has gone with VIAGRA!
Buy VIAGRA at our online store!

  





From: "Winston Wilkins" <CourtneygallstoneAllison@williecrawford.com>
To: <xxx@xxx.xxx>
Cc: <xxx@xxx.xxx>, <xxx@xxx.xxx>,
        <xxx@xxx.xxx>, <xxx@xxx.xxx>
Subject: SHTP, the selling pressure is over
Date: Fri, 2 Nov 2007 16:51:54 -0100




Shotpak Inc ( S H T P ), Survived with Flying colors on one of the worst days in the market

After today's recovery it's safe to say that the selling pressure is over, and buyers are coming in

Only way to go from here is up.

As we mentioned, a company with a patented product, world wide exposure, and great business plan, cannot be held down
otcpk:SHTP is destined to go higher.

The time and price is PERFECT, get in SHTP and ride it to huge gains in a volatile market


ShotPak Tests New Patented StandUp Pouch and Multi-Pack Option In Two Major Southern California Supermarket Chains

IRVINE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--ShotPak, Inc. (Pink Sheets:SHTP - News) today announced at a meeting of the Sales Team that the newly introduced StandUp shaped pouch is currently being tested with consumers in a convenient multiple unit six pack carrier at select Albertsons stores in Southern California.
ADVERTISEMENT




Date: 	Fri, 2 Nov 2007 16:28:22 +0100
From: "Jerry Hanna" <rofadictosaltrabajodoz@adictosaltrabajo.com>
To: xxx@xxx.xxx
Subject: Doctors and Celebrities endorse Anatrim



Anatrim - The up-to-the-moment and most attracting product for corpulent people available - As seen on BBC.Can you
remember all the cases when you said to yourself you would do any thing for being delivered from this fastly growing
pounds of fat?Happily, now no major offering is demanded.With Anatrim, the ground-breaking pound-melting blend, you can
achieve healthier mode of life and become really thinner.Have a look at what our customers write!

"It's unbearably difficult to confess but I was an awful food addict. I greedily devoured all this trash and was unable
to stop. This ruinous passion left off when I started course of taking Anatrim! Holy God, my appetite disappeared, mood
increased and I turned to the happiest person in the world 28 pounds in 2.1 months. So, I can tell you now I became the
happiest person!"

Rita R., Boston

"Since my early childhood I was a bulky boy. You can't even fancy how I hated being ridiculed at school. I hated my
stoutness and I detested myself. After trying many different remedies I heard about Anatrim. It literally took me out of
this nightmare!The very sincere thanks to you, my friends."

Serge Smith, Boston

"You know what?Anatrim saved my marriage!I went into the circle, depression - eating more - just more depression.My wife
was thinking about the leaving me as I was turning in overweight psycho.My friend pointed at your web page and I ordered
up pack of Anatrim at the time. The results I achieved were magnficent, my appetite came to acceptable level, I was in a
good mood oftener, and, certainly, I became able to tighten my belt on some holes.And you see me, the bed became cool
also!"

Mike

There are lots of gratitudes left by happy people taking Anatrim.Why don't you join the thousands and thousands of
slender customers and try this all-natural appetite suppressing energy boosting product now!Do not lose the opportunity!
http://www.sodbrel.com/?vjiuthvkurj





From: "Julia I. Schaefer" <Julia@dtiglobal.com>
To: "Hazel X. Rosado" <xxx@xxx.xxx>
Subject: Voluptuous hotties, fresh adorable girls, horny moms - all love big diks!
Date: Fri, 02 Nov 2007 16:56:14 +0100




prevented any more play  Gold Medal for fighting both the Nazis
Euro campaign a boost  A goal after only three minutesPresident Musharraf has become increasingly intolerant


Tired of viewing hot films and tossing off, 
because you cannot find a lady, who would be satisfied with your average-sized dik? 

Then our offer is definitely for you! 
With MegaDick you will be able to enlarge your dik to the necessary size and attract any lady you wish! 
And believe us, she will enjoy s'e_x with you like with no one in her life!

Try it here now and see obedience to your new male power in her eyes!

http://mulander /

bomb scare, just two months before the eighthin Sherbrooke, despite having already been declaredbe America  ~ Russ Feingold
his government is targeting the media, and in thethe Battle of Glorieta Pass 

_____________________________________
Best regards,
Julia


  
    
      
        Introduction
        Older adults are frequently counseled to lose weight,
        even though there is little evidence that overweight is
        associated with increased mortality in those over age 65.
        Six large controlled population-based studies of
        non-smoking older adults have investigated the association
        between body mass index (BMI) and mortality, controlling
        for relevant covariates [ 1 2 3 4 5 6 ] . All studies found
        excess risk for persons with very low BMI, but that persons
        with moderately high BMI had little or no extra risk except
        in certain small subsets. A review of 13 studies of older
        adults drew similar conclusions [ 7 ] .
        Many healthy older adults report gradual weight gain
        throughout adult life. It may be that a small amount of
        gradual weight gain is normative and associated with the
        most robust health as we age. It has been suggested that
        weight standards be adjusted upwards for age [ 8 ] . Such
        recommendations remain controversial, however, because the
        number of studies of older persons is fairly small, and
        because few studies have examined the relation of BMI to
        quality of life or years of healthy life (YHL) in the
        elderly [ 9 ] .
        In older adults, risk factors may have a greater effect
        on health than on mortality. If so, then behavior change
        trials of weight modification might be more successful if
        they were evaluated on improved health, rather than on
        decreased mortality. Clinical trials powered to detect
        differences in YHL would often require fewer subjects than
        trials to detect survival differences or cardiovascular
        events [ 10 ] . In this paper we study whether BMI at
        baseline is associated with living longer, and/or with more
        years of being healthy, in a cohort of older adults for
        whom risk factors, subclinical disease, and morbidity are
        well characterized. The goal is to determine whether
        analyses based on years of life (YOL) or on YHL would
        provide substantively different results, and which measure
        would yield more powerful evaluations of weight
        modification interventions in older adults.
      
      
        Materials and methods
        
          Study design: The Cardiovascular Health
          Study
          The Cardiovascular Health Study (CHS) is a
          population-based longitudinal study of 5,888 adults aged
          65 and older at baseline [ 11 ] . Subjects were recruited
          from a random sample of the Medicare eligibility lists in
          four US counties. Extensive baseline data were collected
          for all subjects using a baseline home interview, an
          annual mail questionnaire, and annual clinic
          examinations. Additional information was collected in a
          brief telephone interview 6 months after each scheduled
          visit. Two cohorts were followed, one with 7 years of
          follow-up (n = 5,201) and the second (all African
          American, n = 687) with 4 years of follow-up to date.
          Data collection began in 1989, and follow-up is virtually
          complete for all surviving subjects [ 12 ] .
        
        
          Body mass index
          BMI was calculated as measured weight in kilograms
          divided by the square of measured height in meters. A
          report from the National Heart Lung and Blood Institute
          classifies normal weight (without reference to age) as a
          BMI of 18.5 to 24.9; overweight as 25 to 29.9; and
          obesity as 30.0 and higher [ 13 ] . We consider
          separately the group with BMI between 18.5 and 20, which
          was associated with lower survival in studies cited
          above.
        
        
          Years of life and years of healthy life
          YOL is the number of years that a person lived in the
          7 years after baseline. YHL is the number of years in
          which the person was 'healthy', and is similar in concept
          to quality-adjusted life-years, healthy year equivalents,
          or active life expectancy [ 14 ] . We based YHL on
          self-rated health (is your health excellent, very good,
          good, fair, or poor?) (EVGFP) which was collected every 6
          months. EVGFP is a simple but well-known measure, which
          has been studied in detail [ 15 16 ] , and is predictive
          of health events in many studies [ 17 ] . Because we are
          examining health status over time, we added a sixth
          health state, dead. Data were available about 93% of the
          time. We used linear interpolation to estimate missing
          data when there were known values before and after the
          missing value, bringing the percent complete to 95% [ 18
          ] .
          For this analysis we defined YHL as the number of
          years (of 7) in which a person reported excellent, very
          good, or good health (were 'healthy'). YHL ranges from 0
          (for persons who were never in excellent, very good, or
          good health) to 7 years (for persons who were healthy
          throughout). Since people reported their health every 6
          months, YHL has a reasonably continuous distribution. A
          drawback of this simple definition of 'healthy' is that
          it does not distinguish between fair or poor health and
          death, since all are considered 'not healthy'. We also
          used an alternative approach, which assigns a different
          value to each level of EVGFP [ 19 ] . Preliminary results
          were similar for the two approaches, however, and we
          report results using only the simpler definition.
          The calculations had to be modified to include the 438
          persons in the second African American cohort, who have
          been followed only 4 years to date. For those persons,
          and for 70 persons in the first cohort who did not have
          complete data, we estimated the last 4 years of YOL and
          YHL from their age, sex, and health at the end of 3
          years, using validated methods presented elsewhere [ 20 ]
          . That article showed that estimated 4-year YOL and YHL
          were unbiased for the African American cohort. In the
          primary analysis we used observed 7-year YOL and YHL when
          they were available, and observed 3-year YOL and YHL plus
          4-year estimated YOL and YHL when they were not (about
          10% of the sample). We performed all analyses with and
          without the persons who had partially estimated data, to
          ensure that the estimation had not distorted the
          findings.
        
        
          Covariates
          The goal is to examine the association of YOL and YHL
          with BMI. To adjust for possible confounding we chose
          baseline covariates that were prevalent in the elderly,
          related to mortality and morbidity in previous studies,
          and likely to be related to BMI. Self-reported covariates
          include age, gender, smoking (never or former), history
          of arthritis, cancer, diabetes, fair or poor self-rated
          health status, limitations in activities of daily living
          or in instrumental activities of daily living, and 10
          pounds or more unintended weight loss in the year before
          baseline. Clinical covariates include hypertension,
          cardiovascular disease (prevalent heart disease,
          peripheral vascular disease, or cerebrovascular disease),
          maximum thickness of the internal carotid artery,
          depression (CESD score), serum albumin, serum
          cholesterol, and serum creatinine. These measures are
          explained in more detail elsewhere [ 21 22 23 24 ] . We
          excluded 697 current smokers and 313 others with
          incomplete covariate data, leaving 4,878 persons on whom
          this analysis is based.
        
        
          Analysis
          All analyses were performed separately for men and
          women. We calculated two sets of adjusted values, as
          follows. We regressed YOL and YHL first on age, age
          squared, race, and smoking history (former or never), and
          second on all of the covariates listed above. We
          calculated adjusted YOL as a person's observed YOL minus
          predicted YOL (from the regression) plus the mean YOL
          (6.52 years for women or 6.06 for men). That is, a
          person's adjusted YOL is his residual from the regression
          plus the grand mean. The mean of this new variable, for a
          group of subjects, is the adjusted mean YOL for that
          group. Adjusted YHL was calculated in a similar manner.
          We calculated two sets of adjusted variables because of
          the possibility of 'over-adjustment', controlling
          inappropriately for factors (such as diabetes) which may
          have been causally affected by the person's weight. We
          plotted mean adjusted YOL and YHL against BMI, and tested
          for difference among BMI groups using confidence
          intervals or analysis of variance. Finally we calculated
          the effect size for each measure, comparing each BMI
          subgroup to the 'normal' group. The effect size is the
          difference in mean YOL (or YHL) in two groups divided by
          their common standard deviation. Since the sample size
          required to detect an effect of this magnitude is
          proportional to the inverse of the squared effect size,
          large effect sizes are desirable.
        
      
      
        Results
        Table 1shows the distribution of key variables by sex
        and race. Mean age at baseline was 73.1 and about two
        thirds of the men and a third of the women were former
        smokers. Black women had a higher mean BMI and higher
        percent obese (BMI  30) than the other three groups. Black
        men were most likely to have unintentionally lost more than
        10 pounds in the past year; white women were least
        likely.
        About 78% of the subjects were healthy at baseline,
        declining to 57% at the end of 7 years; 20% had died (data
        not shown). Of the 22% who were unhealthy (fair or poor) at
        baseline, about 24% were healthy 7 years later. There was
        thus substantial change in EVGFP over time, in both
        directions. Table 1shows the mean YOL and YHL (calculated
        from EVGFP) in the first seven years of the study, adjusted
        to age 73. For example, black women averaged 6.3 YOL, but
        only 4.2 YHL of a maximum possible 7. We calculated some
        additional descriptive statistics, shown in the final two
        lines: years of unhealthy life (YOL minus YHL) and years
        lost to death (7 minus YOL). White women had the most YHL
        and black men the fewest; black women had the most years of
        unhealthy life, and white men the fewest; black men lost
        the most years to death (1.3 out of 7) while white women
        lost only 0.4 years. For blacks, about 68% of their YOL
        were healthy (YHL/YOL, not shown); for whites, about 75%
        were healthy.
        Among whites, the gender differences in Table 1were
        statistically significant (p <.05) except for BMI and
        unintended weight loss. Among blacks, gender differences
        were significant except for 10 pounds unintended weight
        loss and weight loss since age 50. Among males, there were
        significant differences between black and white for BMI,
        unintended weight loss, YOL, YHL, years of unhealthy life,
        and years lost to death. Whites in the sample had higher
        income and education (data not shown). After adjusting for
        income and education, as well as age and former smoking,
        the difference in BMI was no longer statistically
        significant. Among females, blacks and whites differed
        significantly on BMI, BMI>30, weight loss since age 50,
        YOL, YHL, years of unhealthy life, and years lost to death.
        After adjustment for income and education, the difference
        in weight loss since age 50 was no longer significant.
        Blacks had significantly lower YOL and YHL than whites
        after adjustment for age, but the difference disappeared
        after adjustment for the entire set of health-related
        baseline covariates (analyses not shown).
        We next examined the relationship of BMI to YOL and YHL.
        Table 2presents the mean values of YOL and YHL, adjusted
        for age, race, and previous smoking (columns 1 and 3), and
        also adjusted for the entire set of covariates (columns 2
        and 4). For example, YOL for women, adjusted for age, race,
        and smoking, averaged 6.0 years for women with a baseline
        BMI below 18.5, but averaged 6.6 years for women with a BMI
        from 25 to 29.9. The second column, which shows results
        adjusted for all covariates, is not very different (the
        only discrepancy is for men with BMI < 18.5, a category
        containing only 14 men). Adjustment for extensive
        covariates also made little difference for YHL (columns 3
        and 4). Subsequent analyses are adjusted only for age,
        race, and former smoking. As mentioned above, the group
        with BMI from 18.5 to 20 would be considered 'normal' by
        the NHLBI guidelines, but had lower YOL and YHL than those
        with 20-24.9 in all comparisons. For this reason, and to
        increase sample size for those with low BMI, we combined
        the two lower categories, defining underweight as a BMI
        under 20.
        Figure 1is a plot of adjusted YOL and YHL by sex and
        BMI. For each BMI category the mean and its 95% confidence
        interval are plotted. Categories whose confidence intervals
        do not overlap, or overlap only slightly, are significantly
        different. The bars are slightly offset to permit all error
        bars to be seen.
        YOL for women (the uppermost curve on Figure 1) averaged
        about 6.5 out of 7 years, and showed no evident association
        between BMI and YOL for BMI above 20. Underweight women
        averaged about .25 fewer YOL than other women (p < .05
        compared with normal group). Underweight men also had lower
        YOL, but this group was not significantly different from
        the normal group, in part because of low sample size. Men
        classified as normal, overweight or obese all had about the
        same YOL.
        The lowermost two lines in Figure 1show mean YHL for
        women and men. Women who were normal or overweight averaged
        about 4.9 YHL. The YHL for underweight or obese women was
        about 4.5 years, which was significantly lower than the
        normal group. The relationship of BMI to YHL for men is
        similar, but differences among BMI groups were not
        statistically significant. YHL was significantly higher for
        women than for men in the normal and overweight groups, but
        the sexes had similar YHL in the underweight and obese
        groups.
        We next present the effect size for comparing each group
        to the normal BMI group. The effect sizes are shown in
        Table 3, with the significance results of the associated
        t-tests for the differences in means of the two groups
        being compared. For example, underweight women averaged
        4.50 YHL compared to 4.92 for normal women, and the common
        standard deviation was 1.44. The effect size is thus
        (4.92-4.50)/1.44 = .29. The two groups had significantly
        different YHL, implying that the effect size is also
        significantly greater than zero. A clinical trial of a
        treatment to help underweight women achieve normal weight
        (presumably by addressing the underlying cause) could be
        expected to have 80% power with N = (1.96+.84) 2/.29 2=
        about 93 women per treatment arm, if 7-year YHL were the
        outcome measure.
        The biggest effect sizes are in the first row, comparing
        underweight to normal. YHL and YOL have similar effect
        sizes for women, and are significantly different from zero.
        The effect sizes are not significantly different from zero
        for men, in part because there were only 42 men in the
        underweight category. The effect size comparing overweight
        to normal yielded small, non-significant effect sizes, with
        inconsistent signs, suggesting extremely large sample sizes
        would be needed. For comparing obese to normal, only YHL
        for women showed a large and significant effect size. Thus,
        an intervention to improve the health of underweight women
        to that of their normal weight peers could be performed
        using either YHL or YOL as the outcome variable. Trials to
        make obese women comparable to normal women could be
        evaluated using YHL, but not YOL. Trials to improve the
        health of the other groups to that of the normals would
        probably be fruitless since there is no evidence that being
        overweight (for men or women) or obese (for men) affects
        YOL or YHL.
        As mentioned above, we repeated these analyses excluding
        the persons with partially estimated data, and using two
        different ways of coding YHL. The only substantive change
        was that some of the differences between blacks and whites
        shown in Table 1were no longer statistically significant,
        due to a smaller sample size.
      
      
        Discussion
        
          Optimal weight and overweight
          Recent studies have defined obesity without reference
          to age [ 6 13 30 ] . Andres 
          et al proposed a desirable BMI of
          24-30 for persons aged 60 to 69 [ 8 ] . Allison 
          et al [ 31 ] proposed 27-30 for
          older men and 30-35 for older women. In Figure 1, the
          overweight (as opposed to the obese) are no different
          from those of normal weight, suggesting that these two
          categories could be combined for older adults. Since
          future improvements in life expectancy may be limited [
          32 ] , the greatest advances may be made by improving
          people's YHL. This suggests that the development of
          future guidelines should take YHL or other measures of
          quality of life into account.
        
        
          Implications for clinical trials
          Based on these findings, trials to address obesity in
          older women could be efficient if YHL (but not YOL) was
          the outcome measure. That is, women who changed from
          being obese to being normal would likely show changes in
          YHL, but not YOL. Clinical trials of weight modification
          interventions for older adults who were merely overweight
          would appear to be fruitless since the interventions
          would probably not have a direct effect on either YOL or
          YHL.
          Weight or weight change are sometimes used as the
          outcome in evaluations of interventions such as diet or
          exercise programs. The fact that weight is not associated
          in a consistent way with health suggests that such
          evaluations should be considered critically when older
          adults are the subjects. This is particularly important
          in the light of recent findings, which found that
          interventions such as weight-loss drugs may be harmful [
          33 34 ] . For older adults, the risks associated with
          higher weight are especially unclear, and the optimal
          outcome for a trial of weight loss in older adults
          requires specific attention to improved health and
          mortality.
          Interestingly, the strongest health relationships were
          found for underweight older adults. Clinical trials whose
          objective was to make the underweight as healthy as their
          normal-weight peers (presumably by addressing the
          underlying conditions that caused the low weight) could
          be performed efficiently using either YOL or YHL as the
          outcome measure. Both YOL and YHL would be clinically
          significant in this patient group.
        
        
          Potential limitations
          CHS participants were somewhat healthier than the
          average older adult; however, adjustment for detailed
          covariates made little difference in the findings. We
          estimated the last four years of health data for about
          10% of the sample, but results with and without this
          group were similar. Analysis of mean YOL instead of the
          more traditional survival analysis survival analysis was
          appropriate here, since virtually no persons were lost to
          follow-up. Biases caused by over-adjustment are probably
          not large, since the findings were not sensitive to the
          number of variables adjusted for.
          These results are for a 7-year follow-up. The relative
          superiority of YHL to YOL would probably hold in trials
          with shorter follow-up. The effect sizes in Table 3might
          also be appropriate in shorter trials, since lengthy
          trials often add little information [ 10 ] .
          EVGFP, on which YHL was based, might have missed some
          effects of obesity on risk factors for future health. A
          person who is depressed because of a poor self-image
          related to obesity or who has osteo-arthritis related to
          obesity and limits to activities to successfully avoid
          pain would surely have worse EVGFP than others, based on
          results from many studies. However, health measures
          designed specifically to measure those conditions might
          be more sensitive to change in weight than EVGFP. If YHL
          were based on such measures, the superiority of YHL to
          YOL would likely be even greater than that shown here.
          These more sensitive measures might also have detected
          differences between the overweight and normal weight
          persons, but we think this is unlikely given the absence
          of any differences in EVGFP.
        
      
      
        Conclusion
        Recommendations for desirable weight have been
        criticized for emphasizing mortality rather than health. We
        found associations between YHL and obesity that were not
        present in the mortality analysis, suggesting that YHL may
        be a more sensitive measure of the burden of obesity in
        older adults, especially for women. Future efforts to
        determine desirable weight guidelines should include
        measures of YHL. Using either YOL or YHL, however, we found
        no excess risk for older adults who would be classified as
        'overweight' by the NHLBI guidelines. This suggests using
        YHL as the outcome measure in clinical trials involving
        obese or underweight older adults, and discouraging trials
        that address older adults who are merely overweight.
      
      
        Competing interests
        None declared
      
      
        Abbreviations
        BMI Body mass index
        CESD Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression
        Scale
        CHS Cardiovascular Health Study
        EVGFP Is your health excellent, very good, good, fair or
        poor?
        QALY Quality-adjusted life years
        YHL Years of healthy life
        YOL Years of life
      
    
  

  
    
      
        The problem
        Three published [ 1 2 3 ] and one recently presented [ 4
        ] randomized placebo-controlled clinical trial have
        unequivocally demonstrated that 3-Hydroxy-3-methylgluatryl
        coenzyme A (HMG CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins) reduce
        the morbidity and mortality associated with coronary
        disease. These trials found that when compared with
        placebo, statins significantly reduced the incidence of
        death, myocardial infarction, unstable angina, percutaneous
        and surgical coronary revascularization, and stroke in
        persons with 
        stable coronary disease. Because
        patients who had experienced an acute coronary syndrome
        within three to six months of enrollment were excluded,
        these trials did not assess the effect of lipid-lowering
        therapy on adverse cardiovascular events in those with
        recently 
        unstable coronary disease. Whether
        lipid-lowering therapy would provide incremental benefit if
        initiated immediately following an acute coronary syndrome
        is an important issue as the risk of a recurrent adverse
        cardiac events is much greater in patients with unstable
        coronary disease than in the stable setting. The Myocardial
        Ischemia Reduction with Aggressive Cholesterol Lowering
        (MIRACL) trial set out to answer this question.
      
      
        The answer?
        MIRACL enrolled 3,086 patients within 24-96 hours (mean
        63 hours) of admission for unstable angina or a non-Q-wave
        myocardial infarction and randomized them to 16 weeks of
        atorvastatin 80 mg or placebo once daily [ 5 ] . The major
        exclusion criteria were: total cholesterol level greater
        than 270 mg/dL; Q-wave myocardial infarction on admission
        or during the previous month; and, coronary
        revascularization in the months before admission, during
        the index hospitalization or anticipated following hospital
        discharge. The primary efficacy endpoint was a composite of
        death, non-fatal myocardial infarction, resuscitated sudden
        cardiac death or emergent rehospitalization for worsening
        symptomatic myocardial ischemia. Secondary endpoints
        included stroke, worsening heart failure, need for coronary
        revascularization and change in lipid levels throughout the
        study. On average, patients were 65 years of age,
        approximately 65% were men, 86% Caucasian and the mean
        baseline low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol level
        was 124 mg/dL. Atorvastatin treatment was associated with a
        2.6% absolute reduction in the risk of the primary endpoint
        (14.8% vs. 17.4%; RR relative risk [RR] 0.84, 95%
        confidence interval [CI] 0.70-1.00, p = 0.048). This
        reduction was primarily driven by the 2.2% absolute
        reduction in incidence of emergent rehospitalization for
        symptomatic myocardial ischemia (6.2% vs. 8.4%; RR 0.74,
        95% CI 0.57-0.95, p = 0.02). The risk of death, nonfatal
        myocardial infarction and resuscitated sudden cardiac death
        were each no different between the two groups. While there
        were no significant differences in the incidence of
        worsening heart failure or need for coronary
        revascularization, atorvastatin did reduce the incidence of
        fatal or non-fatal stroke by 0.8% (0.8% vs. 1.6%; RR 0.50,
        95% CI 0.26-0.99, p = 0.045). Atorvastatin also
        significantly reduced total and LDL cholesterol and
        triglyceride levels but did not significantly change high
        density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol by 16 weeks. By 16
        weeks, the adjusted mean LDL cholesterol decreased to 72
        mg/dL in atorvastatin-treated patients but increased to 135
        mg/dL among placebo-treated patients. No serious adverse
        events occurred as the result of treatment with
        atorvastatin, although reversible liver transaminase
        elevation more than three times the upper limit of normal
        occurred in 2.5% of atorvastatin-treated versus 0.6% of
        placebo-treated patients (p < 0.001).
      
      
        The MIRACuLous
        The efficacy and safety findings from MIRACL were unique
        for a number of reasons. Although lipid-lowering therapy
        was associated with a significantly lower mortality when
        initiated early after an acute coronary syndrome in two
        large observational studies [ 6 7 ] , MIRACL was the first
        randomized trial to suggest that statins confer clinical
        benefits in this setting. It was also the first trial to
        identify a short-term (ie, within 16 weeks) clinical
        benefit from statin therapy; in previous secondary
        prevention trials, the benefit of statin therapy was not
        evident for one to two years. And, while clinical trial
        safety endpoints may be considered less glamorous, MIRACL's
        most important contribution may have been that high-dose
        statin therapy was not associated with serious harm,
        despite its use in the unstable setting. Earlier secondary
        prevention statin trials had excluded patients with
        unstable coronary syndromes largely out of theoretical
        concern that statin-mediated reductions in vascular smooth
        muscle cell proliferation might destabilize healing plaque.
        That no harm resulted from this aggressive treatment
        strategy should allay theoretical fears and by doing so
        remove a major obstacle to the inpatient initiation of
        lipid-lowing therapy after coronary events.
      
      
        The not so MIRACuLous
        Despite these unique and important findings, there were
        a number of inherent study limitations worth noting. First
        and foremost, the possibility of a null treatment effect
        cannot be ignored given the wide confidence intervals (and
        hence marginally significant p value of 0.048) for the
        effect of atorvastatin on the primary efficacy endpoint.
        Furthermore, while the number of patients lost to follow up
        was small, if adverse events had occurred in those treated
        with atorvastatin (n = 3) but not placebo (n = 8), the
        overall trial results may have been neutral rather than
        positive.
        The types of events prevented in MIRACL are also worth
        noting. While rehospitalization for recurrent myocardial
        ischemia is an important determinant of quality of life and
        health care costs, other important endpoints were not
        significantly affected (eg, death, myocardial infarction,
        resuscitated sudden cardiac death, worsening heart failure,
        need for coronary revascularization, etc). The question of
        whether statins can prevent these and other adverse events
        when initiated soon after an acute coronary syndrome will
        require further study.
        The short duration of follow-up is also particularly
        troubling. While it is impressive that a clinical benefit
        was realized after only 16 weeks of statin therapy, the
        increased risk of adverse clinical events persists
        throughout the year following an acute coronary syndrome.
        Without longer clinical follow up, it is not possible to
        assess the intermediate-term effect (if any) of
        atorvastatin on hard endpoints such as death or myocardial
        infarction. To do so would be critical in light of the lack
        of effect on these important endpoints at 16 weeks.
        Unfortunately, no late clinical follow up is planned.
        There were also a number of limitations that may have
        hampered the study's generalizability. First, patients who
        underwent recent revascularization or in whom it was
        planned were excluded. Specifically, patients who underwent
        percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) or
        coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery within the
        previous three or six months respectively were not eligible
        for inclusion. The investigators reasoned that recurrent
        ischemic events in this population were likely to result
        from restenosis or bypass graft closure and that statins
        would be less likely to affect these processes [ 8 ] .
        Nevertheless, a number of trials have established the
        benefits of statin therapy 
        early after coronary
        revascularization [ 9 10 11 ] . Furthermore, a number of
        recent trials have suggested that higher risk patients with
        non-ST elevation acute coronary syndromes fair better when
        an early invasive strategy is applied [ 12 13 14 ] and it
        is not uncommon for patients to be treated in this fashion.
        Second, patients with Q-wave myocardial infarction were not
        eligible for enrollment because it was felt that statins
        would not influence the development of important prognostic
        determinants such as left ventricular systolic dysfunction,
        ventricular arrhythmias or mechanical complications [ 5 ] .
        Nevertheless, patients who develop electrocardiographic
        Q-waves represent a substantial proportion of all patients
        with myocardial infarction. While their short-term risk
        following hospital discharge is lower relative to those
        with a non-Q-wave myocardial infarction, it is still much
        greater than in patients with stable coronary disease, and
        the need for secondary prevention in this population is
        equally important. Third, despite the high risk nature of
        enrolled patients (ie, electrocardiogram [ECG] changes
        and/or other objective evidence of ischemia), the rate of
        platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor utilization was
        quite low (1.1%). Such therapy appears to be cost effective
        [ 15 16 ] , especially among high risk patients and is
        recommended under current American College of
        Cardiology/American Heart Association guidelines [ 17 ] .
        Fourth, it may not be possible to ascertain whether these
        findings apply to all patients with recent acute coronary
        syndromes regardless of baseline lipid levels. The small
        difference in number of primary endpoint events between
        atorvastatin and placebo groups make it difficult to
        dissect the relationship between baseline lipid levels and
        treatment effect further. Consequently, it remains
        uncertain whether one can extrapolate the MIRACL trial
        results to those who undergo coronary revascularization
        shortly before or after a coronary event, who present with
        a Q-wave myocardial infarction, who are treated with
        platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors, or who have
        relatively low admission LDL cholesterol levels.
      
      
        Time to change current practice
        Although MIRACL and the two aforementioned cohort
        studies suggest that lipid-lowering agents exert short-term
        clinical benefits when initiated soon after an acute
        coronary syndrome, this remains an open question. Even if
        these findings are not confirmed after further study, one
        could still make a compelling argument that lipid-lowering
        therapy (barring contraindications) should be initiated
        early and universally in patients who present with an acute
        coronary syndrome: First, the long-term safety and
        effectiveness of statins for the secondary prevention of 
        stable coronary disease is
        well-established [ 1 2 3 ] ; Second, as evidenced by
        MIRACL, these agents are safe when initiated at the time of
        hospitalization for an acute coronary syndrome; Third, the
        in-hospital initiation of lipid-lowering therapy appears to
        promote greater long-term utilization of these agents [ 18
        19 20 21 ] . Finally, although lipid levels may be
        unreliable in the setting of an acute coronary syndrome
        (excepting total :HDL and LDL:HDL cholesterol ratios [ 22 ]
        ) the overwhelming majority of patients with coronary
        disease will ultimately require both pharmacologic and
        non-pharmacologic lipid-lowering interventions to attain
        recommended cholesterol targets [ 23 24 25 ] ; newer
        guidelines are even more stringent [ 26 ] . Furthermore,
        data from the recently presented Heart Protection Study
        suggest that clinical benefits may accrue independent of
        baseline cholesterol level [ 4 ] . Thus, to withhold
        lipid-lowering therapy from patients who present with an
        acute coronary syndrome would be to accept the status quo,
        and to date our efforts at cholesterol lowering in the
        secondary prevention setting have been dismal [ 27 28 ]
        .
      
      
        More MIRACLes ahead?
        The ascertainment and quantification of any incremental
        benefit conferred by statin therapy initiated early after
        an acute coronary syndrome will require confirmation. There
        is currently only one ongoing randomized placebo-controlled
        trial of early versus delayed statin therapy in this
        setting, A-2-Z (Aggrastat to Zocor, Merck) [ 29 ] . The
        A-2-Z study is evaluating the efficacy of early treatment
        with simvastatin in 4,500 patients following an episode of
        unstable angina or a non-Q wave myocardial infarction. In
        the first four months, patients will be randomized to
        simvastatin 40 mg daily or placebo. Thereafter, those
        patients treated with simvastatin in the first phase will
        receive 80 mg of simvastatin daily and those treated with
        placebo, 40 mg of simvastatin daily. The primary composite
        endpoint is the occurrence of cardiovascular death,
        non-fatal myocardial infarction, or rehospitalization for
        an acute coronary syndrome (ACS) at one year. If A-2-Z
        demonstrates significant reductions in the incidence of
        adverse events during the first four months, it would
        suggest an incremental clinical benefit from initiating
        these agents early after an acute coronary syndrome. If
        benefits accrue, but do so later during follow up, it would
        be difficult to discriminate between the effects of more
        aggressive vs. earlier lipid lowering therapy.
        The Pravastatin or Atorvastatin Evaluation and Infection
        Therapy (PROVE IT) trial is looking at 4,000 patients
        within 10 days of an acute coronary syndrome and
        randomizing them to either pravastatin 40 mg or
        atorvastatin 80 mg daily [ 29 ] . Patients will be observed
        over at least 1.5 years for the occurrence of myocardial
        infarction or other cardiovascular events. Unlike, MIRACL
        and the A-2-Z trials, this study will not assess the
        efficacy of early statin therapy after an acute coronary
        syndrome; rather, it will examine the role of 
        more vs. 
        less aggressive lipid-lowering in
        this setting.
        In 2002, many would consider it unethical to withhold
        statins from patients with established coronary disease.
        This makes it unlikely that additional placebo-controlled
        trials will be carried out in this area. Future secondary
        prevention studies should look at patients with stable 
        or unstable disease and will need to
        address the comparative efficacy of different statins (or
        newer agents), assess the incremental benefit of
        combination therapy [ 30 ] and determine whether there is a
        serum cholesterol 'floor' below which reductions are
        unlikely to provide further clinical benefit.
      
      
        Competing interests
        Dr Aronow has received honoraria as a speaker and
        advisory board member for Pfizer and as a speaker for
        Merck.
      
      
        Abbreviations
        HMG CoA = 3-Hydroxy-3-methylgluatryl coenzyme A; MIRACL
        = Myocardial Ischemia Reduction with Aggressive Cholesterol
        Lowering; LDL = low density lipoprotein; RR = relative
        risk; CI = confidence interval; HDL = high density
        lipoprotein; PTCA = percutaneous transluminal coronary
        angioplasty; CABG = coronary artery bypass graft; ECG =
        electrocardiogram; A-2-Z = Aggrastat to Zocor; ACS = acute
        coronary syndrome; PROVE IT = Pravastatin or Atorvastatin
        Evaluation and Infection Therapy.
      
    
  

  
    
      
        Background
        Ecto-Nucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolases
        (E-NTPDases, formerly called ecto-ATPases) hydrolyze
        nucleotides in the presence of divalent cations and are
        insensitive to inhibitors of P-type, F-type, and V-type
        ATPases [ 1 ] . Three isoforms that differ in the ratio of
        ATPase/ADPase activity are present on the cell surface [ 2
        ] : E-NTPDase1 with a ratio of 1, E-NTPDase2 with a ratio
        of 10 and E-NTPDase3 with a ratio of 3-5. NTPDases are
        important in many physiological processes like cell
        motility, adhesion, nonsynaptic information transfer,
        secretion, regulation of hemostasis and ectokinases [ 1 ] .
        Understanding the enzymatic mechanisms of the NTPDases will
        help description of their physiological functions, and
        development of strategies to regulate the functions of the
        enzymes.
        The catalytic mechanism of NTPDases is not known even
        though some basic facts of the catalysis have been
        established. NTPDases do not form phosphorylated
        intermediates during catalysis, a conclusion also supported
        by lack of vanadate sensitivity and Pi product inhibition [
        3 4 5 6 ] . The catalytic reaction appears to be
        irreversible and no partial reactions have been observed [
        7 8 ] . Divalent cations like Ca 2+or Mg 2+are required for
        activity, and maximal activity is reached when the
        concentrations of substrates and divalent cations are equal
        [ 1 ] . The specific activities of NTPDases vary over a
        broad range from ten thousand units for potato apyrase to
        less than one hundred units for chicken gizzard ecto-ATPase
        [ 9 10 ] . Sequence comparisons indicate that most of
        NTPDases contain five highly conserved regions, apyrase
        conserved region, ACR1 - ACR5 [ 9 11 ] . However, the
        catalytic sites have not been identified, although ACR1 and
        ACR4 have been implicated in - and -phosphate binding,
        respectively [ 9 ] .
        E-NTPDase1 is also called CD39, as it was first
        described as an antigen present on activated B and T
        lymphocytes. Residues of ACR1 to ACR5 of CD39 have been
        mutated to study the involvement of the ACR regions in
        catalysis. E174 in ACR3 and S218 in ACR4 are required for
        catalytic function [ 12 ] . Substitution of H59 in ACR1
        converted CD39 into an ADPase in a quaternary structure
        dependent manner [ 13 ] . Mutation of W187A in ACR3
        affected CD39 folding and translocation, while mutation of
        W459A in ACR5 increased ATPase activity but diminished
        ADPase activity [ 14 ] . Mutations of D62 and G64 of ACR1
        and D219 and G221 of ACR4 demonstrated that the nucleotide
        phosphate binding domains of NTPDases are similar to those
        present in the actin/heat shock protein/sugar kinase
        superfamily [ 15 ] . These results suggest that the
        conserved residues of the ACR1 to 5 regions are involved in
        the catalytic mechanism of CD39.
        The catalytic activity of CD39 is dependent on the
        presence of divalent cations. Since the interactions of Ca
        +2and Mg +2with proteins are difficult to study due to the
        lack of spectroscopic properties, vanadyl (V IV=O) 2+has
        been used as a probe of the ligands that compose Mg 2+, Ca
        2+, and Mn 2+binding sites of several proteins, including
        carboxypeptidase [ 16 ] , S-adenosylmethionine synthetase [
        17 18 ] , pyruvate kinase [ 19 20 ] , and F 
        1 -ATPase [ 21 22 ] . This cation
        specifically binds to divalent cation binding sites of
        several enzymes, and in many cases serves as a functional
        cofactor [ 23 ] . Vanadyl has one axial and four equatorial
        coordination sites relative to the axis of the
        double-bounded oxygen, an arrangement that is similar to
        that for Ca 2+and Mg 2+. As it is known that the 
        A and 
        g tensors derived from the EPR spectrum
        of bound VO 2+are a direct measure of the nature of the
        equatorial metal ligands [ 24 ] , binding of VO 2+to CD39
        could provide details about the catalytic mechanism of
        CD39.
        Recently we reported that a recombinant soluble CD39,
        capable of hydrolyzing both ATP and ADP, was expressed and
        purified from insect cells [ 25 ] . Only one
        nucleotide-binding site was identified on the purified
        soluble CD39 in the presence of Ca 2+when non-hydrolysable
        nucleotide analogs were used. In this report, we
        characterized the signals that were obtained from bound VO
        2+when ATP or ADP was present at the catalytic site of the
        purified soluble CD39. The possible metal ligands for VO
        +2at the catalytic site are proposed and the catalytic
        mechanism is discussed.
      
      
        Results
        
          Nucleotidase activity of purified soluble CD39 with
          VO 2+as cofactor
          The ability of purified soluble CD39 to hydrolyze VO
          2+ATP is shown in Figure 1. Soluble CD39 did not
          hydrolyze either ATP or ADP in the absence of VO 2+(Fig.
          1A). When VO 2+was mixed with ATP at a ratio of 1:1, the
          concentrations of both ADP and AMP increased and ATP
          decreased as the incubation time was prolonged (Fig. 1B).
          The ATPase activity of sCD39 with VO 2+was about 25% of
          that with Ca 2+as a cofactor. Vanadyl is unstable in
          aqueous solution at pH7.0 in the absence of chelator and
          will precipitate out of solution as [VO(OH) 
          2 ] 
          n . The rate of precipitation depends
          on the abundance and affinity of the chelator. This means
          that the actual VO 2+concentration was lower than 0.5 mM.
          This result indicates that VO 2+can functionally
          substitute for Ca 2+as cofactor for sCD39 nucleotidase
          activity.
        
        
          Characterization of bound VO 2+ADPNP by
          CW-EPR
          The parallel features of CW-EPR spectrum of bound VO
          2+in the presence of ADPNP, an ATP analog, are shown in
          Figure 2a. This spectrum shows 51V hyperfine splitting
          and the center of the parallel transitions from molecules
          with the V=O bond oriented along the magnetic field (A 
          || , g 
          || ) which are strong enough to tell
          the nature of VO 2+equatorial ligands [ 22 ] . Of the
          eight transitions that result from the parallel oriented
          molecules, the -7/2 
          || , -5/2 
          || , +3/2 
          || , +5/2 
          || , and +7/2 
          || transitions (shown in the figures
          from left to right, respectively) do not overlap with
          perpendicular transitions. The 51V hyperfine splitting
          spectra from molecules with V=O bond perpendicular to the
          magnetic field (A) are much smaller and not shown here [
          21 ] . The intensity of -5/2 
          || peak is used as direct measurement
          of the amount of bound VO 2+, since this peak is the most
          intense peak in the EPR spectrum that contains
          contribution only from A 
          || but not A [ 21 26 ] . In this
          study, the intensities of each bound VO 2+-EPR feature
          were normalized to 1 mg of protein.
          VO 2+bound as the VO 2+-AMPPNP complex to sCD39
          produced a strong spectrum characterized by A 
          || of 504.25 MHz and g 
          || of 1.9410 (Fig. 2b), called species
          T (Table 1). The best fit of EPR species T to eq 1 is one
          equatorial nitrogen from an amino group and three
          equatorial oxygen ligands from carboxyl or phosphate
          groups (Table 2). This result is consistent with AMPPNP
          binding strongly to a single site on sCD39 in the
          presence of metal [ 25 ] .
        
        
          Characterization of EPR species from VO 2+-AMPCP
          bound to sCD39
          Figure 3ashows the parallel features of the EPR
          spectrum of sCD39 bound VO 2+-AMPCP. Two sets of parallel
          transitions were observed, and the derived A 
          || and g 
          || values are listed in Table 1. One
          set had A 
          || of 521.78 MHz and g 
          || of 1.937, which is defined as
          species D1 (Fig. 3b). The other set displayed A 
          || of 490.01 MHz and g 
          || of 1.9435, which is called species
          D2 (Fig. 3c). The intensity of species D1 accounted for
          11.4% of species T from bound VO 2+-AMPPNP, and the
          intensity of D2 accounted for 7.1% of species T. The
          intensity ratio of species D1 over D2 was 1.6.
          In order to distinguish species D1 from D2, the sample
          with VO 2+-AMPCP bound to sCD39 was thawed and incubated
          at room temperature for 30 minutes, and the VO 2+EPR
          spectrum was collected again. As shown in Figure 4aand
          4b, either A 
          || or g 
          || values for both species D1 and D2
          were changed. The intensity of species D1 was not changed
          as it accounted for 12.1% of the intensity of species T
          of the bound VO 2+-AMPPNP. However, the intensity of
          species D2 was decreased dramatically, and it accounted
          for only 0.1% of the intensity of species T. The
          intensity ratio of D1 over D2 increased about 75 fold to
          become 120.
          There are two sets of equatorial ligands that can fit
          well the EPR species D1 according to Eq 1 (Table 2). One
          set includes two equatorial oxygen from two water
          molecules, one equatorial oxygen from a carboxyl group or
          phosphate, and one equatorial nitrogen from an amino
          group. The other set contains one equatorial oxygen from
          water and three equatorial oxygens from carboxyl groups
          or phosphate. The best fit for the EPR species D2 to eq 1
          is one equatorial oxygen from a hydroxyl group and three
          equatorial oxygens from carboxyl groups or phosphate.
        
        
          EPR characteristics of sCD39 bound VO 2+-ATP
          In order to capture the bound VO 2+-EPR signal before
          the enzyme completely turned over, sCD39 and VO 2+-ATP
          were mixed on ice, immediately transferred into the EPR
          tube and frozen. The entire process took about 15
          seconds. The parallel portion of the collected VO 2+-EPR
          spectrum is shown in Figure 5a. VO 2+-ATP complex bound
          to sCD39 produced an EPR spectrum with A 
          || of 489.5 MHz and g 
          || of 1.9455, which corresponded to
          species D2 (Fig. 5b). The signal intensity from the bound
          VO 2+-nucleotide complex accounted only for 7.5% of that
          of species T from bound non-hydrolysable VO 2+-ADPNP
          complex.
          The same sample made from mixing VO 2+-ATP and sCD39
          was incubated at room temperature for 30 minutes, then
          the VO 2+-EPR spectrum was generated as shown in Figures
          4cand 4d. The EPR parameters derived from this VO 2+-EPR
          spectrum were 489.5 MHz for A 
          || and 1.9455 for g 
          || respectively, which is consistent
          with species D2. However, the signal intensity decreased
          about 37.5 fold compared to that obtained before room
          temperature incubation.
        
        
          Free VO 2+binding to sCD39 characterized by
          CD-EPR
          Like other metals (Ca 2+and Mg 2+), free VO
          2+inhibited the nucleotidase activities of sCD39 at high
          concentration (data not shown). VO 2+in the absence of
          any nucleotides was added to sCD39 at 1:1 molar ratio.
          The parallel transitions of bound VO 2+-EPR spectrum are
          shown in Figure 6. The features derived from the VO
          2+-EPR spectrum were 486 MHz for A 
          || and 1.946 for g 
          || , which was designed as species V
          (Fig. 6b). The signal intensity of bound VO 2+accounted
          for 20.3% of that from the bound VO 2+-ADPNP complex.
          The best fit of equatorial ligands for species V
          according to eq 1 is two equatorial oxygen from hydroxyl
          groups and another two equatorial oxygen from two water
          molecules.
        
      
      
        Discussion
        Vanadyl has been used to estimate the types of groups
        that serve as metal-ligands in F 
        1 -ATPase and other enzymes [ 16 18 19
        21 ] because the g and A tensors of the 51V hyperfine
        couplings are approximately a linear combination of tensors
        from each type of group that contributes an equatorial
        ligand [ 24 27 ] . By studying the EPR spectra of bound VO
        2+in the presence of different nucleotides, we show that
        the interaction of soluble CD39 with ATP is different from
        that with ADP.
        It is not surprising that VO 2+can functionally replace
        Ca 2+in the hydrolysis of both ATP and ADP by soluble CD39,
        although the enzymatic activity is about 25% of that with
        Ca 2+as the cofactor, since F 
        1 -ATPase also hydrolyzes ATP at a
        decreased rate when VO 2+replaces Mg 2+ [ 21 ] .
        The EPR features of VO 2+are able to reveal some details
        about how CD39 hydrolyzes ATP and ADP. A single EPR
        feature, species T, was observed when ADPNP (a
        non-hydrolyzable analog of ATP) complexed with VO 2+was
        bound to sCD39, which is consistent with the presence of
        only one nucleotide binding site [ 25 ] . The g and A
        tensors derived from species T are 1.9410 and 504.25 MHz
        respectively, which can be fitted best with one amino group
        and three groups combined from carboxyl and phosphate
        groups as the equatorial ligands of the bound VO 2+on
        sCD39. In accordance with metal-ATP complex coordination on
        other enzymes that hydrolyze ATP, like F 
        1 -ATPase [ 22 28 ] , the - and
        -phosphate of ATP most likely bind to VO 2+while the third
        carboxyl group is contributed by a side-chain of aspartate
        or glutamate of sCD39. It is not unusual for the -amino
        group of lysine to coordinate with metals in enzymes. It
        has been reported that the amino group serves as one of VO
        2+equatorial ligands in CF 
        1 -ATPase [ 21 ] , pyruvate kinase [ 19
        20 ] , AdoMet synthetase [ 17 18 ] , and carboxypeptidase [
        16 ] . Thus one amino group from lysine, one carboxyl group
        from aspartate or glutamate, and two oxygens from the
        phosphates of ADPNP serve as the equatorial ligands of
        sCD39 bound VO 2+in the presence of ADPNP.
        In the presence of AMPCP, bound VO 2+produced two EPR
        features, species D1 and species D2 that are separated by
        about 30 MHz. As we have reported that sCD39 releases
        intermediate ADP before ADP is further cleaved during ATP
        hydrolysis [ 25 ] , sCD39 probably has two conformations
        that bind metal-ADP complexes, one is the conformation that
        releases the ADP intermediate, and another that recruits
        intermediate ADP back to the enzyme for further hydrolysis
        to AMP. However, intact CD39 does not release intermediate
        ADP during ATP hydrolysis, suggesting that there is only
        one ADP binding site on each CD39 monomer in the intact
        protein [ 2 25 ] . The two EPR species observed with VO
        2+-AMPCP probably correspond to the two different
        conformations of bound ADP at the same catalytic site on
        sCD39. The signal intensity of the bound VO 2+-AMPCP EPR
        spectrum indicates that species D1 is dominant over species
        D2. In order to further assign species D1 and D2 to the two
        different conformations, two experiments were done (Fig.
        5). Incubation of sCD39 with VO 2+-AMPCP at room
        temperature resulted in a dramatic decrease of the
        intensity of species D2, while the signal intensity of
        species D1 remained unchanged. These data indicate that VO
        2+-AMPCP was released from the conformation corresponding
        to species D2; however, the conformation corresponding to
        species D1 still had bound VO 2+-AMPCP. More evidence for
        two conformations of the enzyme was obtained from the EPR
        spectra of bound VO 2+-ATP. No species T was found
        presumably because ATP was converted to ADP before the
        sample was frozen. Only species D2 was observed and its
        intensity decreased as the incubation time was prolonged.
        We suggest that species D2 corresponds to the conformation
        that releases ADP as an intermediate product and species D1
        corresponds to the conformation that binds ADP as a
        substrate. The lower signal intensities of species D1 and
        D2 compared to that of species T suggest that the affinity
        of sCD39 for ADP or its analog AMPCP is lower than that for
        the ATP analog ADPNP, which is consistent with the result
        that only ATP analogs were detected on sCD39 [ 25 ] .
        The calculated g 
        || and A 
        || values that best matched the
        experimental values for species D2 suggest that one
        hydroxyl group and three oxygens derived from carboxyl
        groups and phosphates are the equatorial ligands of bound
        VO 2+-ADP. Since the conformation corresponding to species
        D2 is found in the presence of ATP and is likely to be the
        conformation that releases bound VO +2-ADP, it is likely
        that the VO +2ligands are one phosphate and two carboxyl
        groups [ 25 ] . When ADP is the substrate and generates
        species D1, one water molecule and a combination of three
        groups between carboxyl groups and phosphates serve as the
        equatorial ligands of bound VO 2+on sCD39. The probable
        combination of carboxyl groups and phosphates for species
        D1 is one carboxyl group and two phosphates since VO
        2+complexes ADP through two phosphates before VO 2+-ADP is
        bound to the enzyme.
        The site directed mutagenesis studies on CD39 and other
        members of the CD39 family give some hints about the
        possible residues that serve as metal ligands at the
        catalytic site of sCD39. The changes of D62 on ACR1, E174
        on ACR3, D213 (D219 in HB6) and S218 on ACR4 dramatically
        decrease both ATPase and ADPase activities of CD39 [ 12 15
        ] . Figure 7summarizes the possible coordination of Ca
        2+from the data of species T, species D1, and species D2 in
        the different situations of sCD39 catalysis. The catalytic
        base attack results in cleavage of the -phosphate of ATP,
        and one carboxyl group replaces the -phosphate as a metal
        ligand (from species T to species D2), which is accompanied
        by a swap of an amino group with a hydroxyl group (S218?).
        This hydroxyl group (S218?) probably interacts with the
        water molecule through hydrogen bond in the conformation
        corresponding to species D1 to hydrolyze ADP. The constant
        carboxyl group that appears in all conformations of sCD39
        hydrolysis is likely contributed by D213 since it is close
        to S218.
        The results presented here also provide an explanation
        to the free metal inhibition of CD39 catalytic activity.
        Free VO 2+binds to sCD39 through two hydroxyl groups and
        two water molecules that are hydrogen bonded to other
        residues of sCD39. Once free VO 2+occupies the catalytic
        site, the enzyme has to either release the metal or correct
        the conformation before the substrates are recruited
        properly.
      
      
        Conclusions
        VO 2+can functionally substitute for Ca 2+as a cofactor
        for sCD39. Four different EPR spectra are obtained for VO
        2+bound in the presence of different nucleotides and in the
        absence of nucleotide. The protein ligands for VO +2in the
        presence of ATP are suggested to be carboxyl and amino
        groups, while those in the presence of ADP are probably
        carboxyl and hydroxyl groups. The mechanism of sCD
        catalysis is discussed. These results will provide guides
        for further studies of the catalytic mechanism of
        NTPDases.
      
      
        Materials and Methods
        
          Reagents
          ATP, ADP, ADPNP, AMPCP were purchased from Sigma (St.
          Louis, MO). Zeocin, High-Five medium were purchased from
          Invitrogen (Carlsbad, CA).
        
        
          Cell culture and preparation of soluble CD39
          sCD39 transfected stable HighFive insect cells were
          cultured as described by Chen and Guidotti [ 25 ] .
          Soluble CD39 were purified as described [ 25 ] with some
          modifications. After concanavalin A-Sepharose 4B and
          nickel affinity column chromatography, the ammonium
          sulfate precipitated sCD39 was collected and resuspended
          in about 50 l of 40 mM Tris-HCl (pH7.5). This sample was
          loaded on a Superose-12HR gel filtration column from
          Pharmacia Biotech equilibrated with 40 mM Tris-HCl
          (pH7.5). The fractions containing the major peak were
          collected, and the solvent was changed to 20 mM Hepes
          (pH8.0), 120 mM NaCl, 5 mM KCl with an YM30 centricon
          from Millipore. The final volume of the sample was around
          200 l, and the concentration of sCD39 was around 0.1
          mM.
          Concentrations of proteins were determined using D 
          C Protein Assay from BIO-RAD using the
          provided protocol.
        
        
          Nucleotidase activity assay and nucleotide
          separation by HPLC
          The reactions were carried out in 20 mM HEPES-Tris (pH
          7.0), 120 mM NaCl, and 5 mM KCl; they were started by
          adding nucleotides at 37C. After incubation for 15
          minutes, the reactions were stopped with 2%
          perchloroacetic acid
          Nucleotides were separated by HPLC on an anion
          exchange column (a 10  0.46 mm SAX column from Rainin
          Instruments) based on the method of Hartwick and Brown [
          29 ] . The low concentration buffer (A) was 0.08 M NH 
          4 H 
          2 PO 
          4 (pH3.8), and the high concentration
          buffer (B) was 0.25 M NH 
          4 H 
          2 PO 
          4 (pH4.95) with 8 mM KCl. The gradient
          used was 4 min, 0-2.5% (B); 26 min, 2.5-25% (B).
          Equilibration was done with buffer (A) for 10 minutes,
          and the flow rate was 1 ml/min.
        
        
          Preparation of VO 2+solution
          Vanadyl and nucleotide solution were prepared
          according to Houseman et al. [ 21 ] . Dissolved molecular
          oxygen was removed from solutions by purging with dry
          nitrogen gas. Stock vanadyl and nucleotide solution were
          thawed on ice, and mixed at 1:1 molar ratio by vigorous
          stirring. Then VO 2+-nucleotide complexes were added to
          purified sCD39 at 1:1 molar ratio, mixed, and incubated
          for 5 minutes on ice before they were transferred into
          EPR tubes. Once the samples were in EPR tubes, they were
          immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen, and stored in
          liquid nitrogen before using.
        
        
          EPR Measurement
          CW-EPR experiments were carried out at X-band (9 GHz)
          using a Bruker 300E spectrometer with a TE102 rectangular
          standard cavity and a liquid nitrogen flow cryostat
          operating at 150 K. Simulations of these EPR spectra were
          accomplished with the computer program QPOWA [ 30 31 ]
          ).
          To estimate the types of groups that serve as
          equatorial ligands to VO 2+in each condition, the
          observed values of A 
          || derived from simulation of the EPR
          spectrum by QPOWA were compared with the coupling
          constants obtained from model studies [ 24 32 ]
          using:
          A 
          ||calc =  n 
          i A 
          ||i /4
          where i represents the different types of equatorial
          ligand donor groups, n 
          i (=1-4) is the number of ligands of
          type i, and A 
          ||i is the measured coupling constant
          for equatorial donor group i [ 24 ] . Similar equations
          were used to calculated g 
          || from a given set of equatorial
          ligands for comparison with those derived
          experimentally.
        
      
    
  

  
    
      
        Background
        Glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) catalyzes the formation of
        the inhibitory neurotransmitter -amino butyric acid (GABA)
        from glutamate. In mammals, the two isoforms of this
        enzyme, GAD67 and GAD65, are expressed from two separate
        genes, 
        Gad1 and 
        Gad2 respectively [ 1, 2, 3]. GABA
        signaling plays several roles in neuronal development.
        Early in CNS development, GABA can modulate neuron
        progenitor proliferation as well as neuron migration,
        survival and differentiation [ 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,
        12, 13, 14]. In some classes of neural progenitors GABA
        stimulates these processes while in others it has an
        antagonistic activity. For example, recent work has
        demonstrated that GABA acts in the developing neocortex to
        stimulate the proliferation of progenitors in the
        ventricular zone while inhibiting the proliferation of
        progenitors in the subventricular zone [ 14]. Later, during
        postnatal development, normal GABAergic input is required
        for activity-dependent plasticity in the visual cortex as
        shown in the 
        Gad2 knockout mouse [ 15, 16]. In
        addition to these functions in the developing CNS, GABA
        signaling is also required for the normal development of
        non-neural tissues. Targeted mutations of the 
        Gad1 gene lead to defective
        development of the secondary palate [ 17, 18]. The cleft
        palate phenotype of the 
        Gad1 mutants suggests the involvement
        of GABA-mediated signals in the normal development and
        differentiation of a structure derived from the oral
        epithelium and neural crest ecto-mesenchyme. This
        conclusion is further supported by the similar cleft palate
        defect seen in mice with a deletion or targeted mutation in
        the 3 subunit of the GABA 
        A receptor [ 19, 20, 21, 22].
        This intriguing genetic evidence indicates a role for
        GABA-mediated signaling in the development of a non-neural
        structure, the secondary palate. The potential for this
        pathway to be involved in the early development of
        additional non-neural tissues has not yet been thoroughly
        explored [ 23]. To address this question, we surveyed 
        Gad1 transcript distribution in the
        non-CNS tissues of the embryo. Using a whole mount 
        in situ hybridization approach, we
        found that 
        Gad1 is indeed expressed in a number
        of different regions and tissues. A notable feature of this
        expression pattern is that 
        Gad1 transcripts accumulate in the
        specialized ectodermal structures that are involved in the
        formation of the mystacial vibrissae and in limb outgrowth.
        These specialized ectodermal tissues are known to be
        sources of developmental signals [ 24, 25, 26]. In
        addition, transcripts are expressed in the mesenchymal stem
        cell population of the tailbud and in the pharyngeal
        endoderm and mesenchyme. The expression patterns show that 
        Gad1 is expressed in several non-CNS
        structures that are derived from each of the three germ
        layers of the embryo.
      
      
        Results
        The mouse 
        Gad1 gene is widely expressed in the
        embryonic central nervous system [ 27]. To define
        additional sites of expression outside of the CNS, we
        analyzed the distribution of 
        Gad1 transcripts in E8.5 to E14.5
        mouse embryos by whole mount 
        in situ hybridization.
        
        Gad1 transcripts were not detected in
        E8.5 day embryos (data not shown). At E9.0 
        Gad1 was readily detected in the
        tailbud (figure 1A). Expression in the tail continued
        through E12.5 and was undetectable by E13.5 (figure
        1B,C,Dand data not shown), a period corresponding to
        secondary body axis formation in the mouse embryo [ 28].
        Examination of sections from an E9.5 embryo revealed a high
        level of 
        Gad1 expression throughout the
        mesenchyme and neural epithelium in the caudal portion of
        the tailbud (figure 1F). No transcripts were detected in
        the surface ectoderm surrounding the tailbud mesenchyme
        (figure 1F). At more cranial levels within the tail,
        expression was localized to paraxial mesoderm, ventral
        neural tube, notochord and cells of the dorsal hindgut
        (figure 1E). In the paraxial mesoderm, the highest
        expression levels were also localized ventrally, adjacent
        to the notochord (figure 1E).
        In the pharyngeal region of E9.5 embryos, 
        Gad1 RNA was detected in and around
        the second, third and fourth pharyngeal pouches (figure
        2A). Sections through the third pouch confirmed the
        presence of 
        Gad1 expression in the pouch endoderm
        (data not shown). Expression was particularly strong in the
        dorsal portion of this pouch (figure 2B). The additional
        diffuse staining appeared to be in the pharyngeal
        mesenchyme (figure 2B). The expression in the pharyngeal
        region was very transient; transcripts were easily detected
        at E9.5, but only faintly at E9.0 and were not detectable
        by E10.5.
        In the limb buds, 
        Gad1 RNA was detected from E9.0 to
        E11.5 (figure 3A,B,C,D,E,F,G,H). Transcripts were initially
        expressed in the pre-apical ectodermal ridge (pre-AER) at
        E9.5 (figure 3A,B) and by E10.5 were seen in the definitive
        AER of the forelimb (figure 3D). At E10.5 
        Gad1 was expressed in a diffuse
        stripe in the forelimb (figure 3D) while in the hindlimb
        expression was only detected in the apical ectoderm (figure
        3E). By E11.5 forelimb AER expression was fading and
        expression was seen in a diffuse stripe in the proximal
        forelimb and a diffuse crescent in the proximal hindlimb
        (figure 3G,H). The earlier activation of 
        Gad1 in the forelimb reflects the
        normal temporal order of events in limb development.
        Sections indicate that the expression within the limb buds
        was in surface ectoderm and adjacent mesenchyme (data not
        shown). 
        Gad1 RNA was not detected in the
        limbs by whole mount 
        in situ hybridization after
        E11.5.
        A dynamic pattern of 
        Gad1 expression was detected in the
        developing vibrissae from E12.5 to E14.5 (figure
        4A,B,C,D,E,F,G,H). Expression was first detected in the
        supra-orbital, infra-orbital, and post-oral vibrissae and
        in the posterior vibrissae in the lateral nasal and
        maxillary rows (figure 4A,B; nomenclature as in [ 29]). 
        Gad1 RNA was also detected in some of
        the posterior labial vibrissae at this stage. Expression
        was activated in a posterior to anterior (towards the nose)
        progression in the lateral nasal and maxillary rows,
        reflecting the pattern of vibrissal development [ 29]. By
        E13.5, 
        Gad1 expression was detected in the
        anterior lateral nasal and maxillary rows and was activated
        in the rhinal, labial and submental vibrissae (figure
        4C,D). By E14.5, expression was strong in the labial,
        submental and rhinal vibrissae (figure 4E,F). Sections of
        E12.5 whole mounts show that 
        Gad1 expression was localized to the
        epidermal placodes of the mystacial vibrissae (figure 4G,H)
        and was maintained as the placodes begin to invaginate
        (figure 4G).
        Control hybridizations using a sense strand 
        Gad1 probe were also performed.
        Embryos hybridized to the sense probe did not reveal any
        staining pattern at any of the stages tested (E8.5- E14.5).
        Sense strand hybridization results for E10.5 and E11.5
        embryos are shown in figure 5.
      
      
        Discussion
        The expression results reported here show that 
        Gad1 was activated in several tissues
        outside of the central nervous system during mouse
        development. Transcripts were not seen at E8.5 and were
        first detected at E9.0. It was surprising that this very
        early phase of 
        Gad1 expression was largely outside
        of the developing CNS and was localized in the tail bud
        mesenchyme and in the pre-apical ectodermal ridge (pre-AER)
        of the forelimb bud. As development proceeded 
        Gad1 was detected in pharyngeal
        endoderm and in the ectodermal placodes of the vibrissae.
        The data demonstrate that 
        Gad1 is expressed in several sites
        outside of the developing CNS and in derivatives of all
        three germ layers. We have also detected the expression of 
        Gad1-lacZ transgenes in the
        developing vibrissae and limbs supporting the novel and
        surprising 
        in situ hybridization results we
        report here (J.J. Westmoreland and B.G.C., unpublished
        results).
        Previous studies have shown that 
        Gad1 can be regulated at the
        post-transcriptional and translational level. 
        Gad1 mRNA translation or protein
        stability can be regulated in mature neurons by the level
        of GABA [ 30, 31]. During embryogenesis,
        post-transcriptional regulation occurs by alternative
        splicing during embryonic development in rats and mice [
        32, 33]. This alternate embryonic transcript inserts a stop
        codon into the 
        Gad1 mRNA and can produce the
        truncated proteins, GAD25 and GAD44, from its 5'; and 3'
        ends respectively. The studies reported here used a probe
        that will detect the adult 
        Gad1 mRNA that encodes GAD67 as well
        as the embryonic alternatively spliced mRNA that can encode
        GAD25 and GAD44. These additional mechanisms of 
        Gad1 regulation may control the
        production of GAD proteins and the synthesis of GABA in the
        non-neural cell types detected in our study.
        The whole mount 
        in situ hybridization data reported
        here extends the results of a recently published section 
        in situ hybridization study on
        E10.5-E12.5 mouse embryos [ 27]. Our analysis showed that 
        Gad1 expression is first detectable
        earlier at E9.0 and revealed novel non-CNS sites of
        expression in the pharyngeal region, vibrissae, tail bud
        and limb bud. The results of the previous study [ 27],
        together with the data reported herein, provide a
        comprehensive picture of 
        Gad1 expression in the E9.0-E12.5
        mouse embryo.
        Previous studies have noted 
        Gad expression outside of the CNS. In
        adults 
        Gad1 and 
        Gad2 have been detected in a number
        of tissues including kidney, testis, oviduct, pancreatic
        islets and adrenal cortex [ 34, 35, 36, 37]. Previously
        reported sites of embryonic 
        Gad1 expression outside of the brain
        and spinal cord during rodent development include the lens
        fibers and the olfactory pit [ 38, 39]. In E10.5-E12.5
        mouse embryos 
        Gad1 is expressed in the olfactory
        and the lens placodes, the anlagen of the olfactory pit and
        lens fibers [ 27]. We also detected 
        Gad1 expression in these tissues
        (please see figure 3Aand data not shown). Expression of 
        Gad in the developing heart and blood
        vessels has also been reported [ 27]. We detected weak
        staining in the heart and did not detect blood vessel
        expression, perhaps due to the very low levels of
        expression in developing vasculature [ 27]. Our results
        document localized expression of 
        Gad1 at additional non-CNS sites in
        the mouse embryo, suggesting a potential role for GABA
        signaling in the development of these structures.
        Our interest in the role of GABA signaling in developing
        tissues outside of the central nervous system stems from
        the cleft palate phenotype of the 
        Gad1 and the 3 GABA 
        A receptor subunit mutants [ 17, 18, 19,
        21, 22]. The genetic data strongly suggest that GABA acts
        through GABA 
        A receptors to modulate the development
        of this tissue. Although the data reported here do not
        explain the origin of the cleft palate phenotype, they do
        indicate that 
        Gad1 is expressed in several
        additional non-CNS tissues in the mouse embryo. It is
        particularly noteworthy that these include the AER of the
        limb buds and the ectodermal placodes of the vibrissae.
        Both are ectodermal structures known to be sources of
        developmental signals required for morphogenesis and
        patterning [ 24, 25, 26, 40]. It will be of interest to
        examine the expression pattern of GABA receptors in the
        mesenchyme adjacent to these ectodermal signaling centers.
        Expression of GABA receptor subunits in adjacent tissues
        would indicate that these receptors read the developmental
        signals mediated by GABA in these structures and
        tissues.
      
      
        Conclusions
        The mouse gene encoding the 67 kDa isoform of glutamate
        decarboxylase ( 
        Gad1 ) is expressed in the tail bud
        mesenchyme, vibrissal placodes, pharyngeal arches and
        pouches and the apical ectodermal ridge (AER), mesenchyme
        and ectoderm of the limb buds in mouse embryos from
        E9.0-E14.5. Some of the 
        Gad1 expressing tissues (vibrissal
        placodes, AER) are known sources of developmental signals.
        Other sites of expression correspond to stem cell
        populations that give rise to multiple differentiated
        tissues (tail bud mesenchyme, pharyngeal endoderm and
        mesenchyme). The localized and dynamic expression pattern
        of 
        Gad1 suggests a wider role for GAD
        and GABA in the development of non-neural tissues than was
        previously known.
      
      
        Materials and Methods
        Whole mount 
        in situ hybridizations were performed
        on Swiss Webster embryos as described [ 41, 42]. The
        morning that the vaginal plug was found was considered 0.5
        days of gestation. The 
        Gad1 probe was derived from an EST
        clone (accession W59173). Its 5' end corresponds to
        nucleotide 142 in exon 1 [ 43] and the 3' end is at
        nucleotide 2041 in the cDNA sequence [ 44]. Digoxygenin
        sense and antisense RNA probes were generated by labeling
        with digoxygenin-UTP during transcription. Embryos were
        removed and fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde/PBS overnight and
        used immediately for the 
        in situ hybridization. The embryos
        were processed as described previously [ 41] and hybridized
        to the probe overnight in 50% formamide, 5X SSC (pH 5.0),
        50 g/ml torula RNA, 50 g/ml heparin at 70C. The final
        concentration of probe in the hybridization was 1 g/ml.
        After an overnight hybridization, the embryos were washed
        at high stringency in prewarmed 50% formamide, 5X SSC, 1%
        SDS (wash I) at 70C for 90 minutes. The embryos were then
        washed in a 1:1 mix of wash I and wash II (0.5 M NaCl, 10
        mM Tris pH 7.5, 0.1% Tween 20) for 10 minutes at 70C. The
        embryos were washed several times in wash II at room
        temperature to remove the formamide and then treated with
        100 g/ml RNase A, 100 units/ml RNase T1 in wash II for 1
        hour at 37C. Following the RNase treatment the embryos
        were washed in three changes of 50% formamide, 2X SSC pH5.0
        at 70C for a total of 90 minutes. Detection of the
        hybridized RNA probe was as described previously [ 41]. The
        embryos were photographed without clearing using a Leica
        model MZFL III dissecting scope, a Hamamatsu model C4742-95
        digital camera and Openlab 2.0.7 software.
        For sectioning, embryos were embedded in Immunobed
        (Polysciences) resin and sectioned at 10 m. Sections were
        phtotographed using an Olympus BX60 microscope fitted with
        a SPOT digital camera (Diagnostic Instruments Inc.).
      
    
  

  
    
      
        Background
        Primary Sjgren's syndrome (1SS) is a systemic
        autoimmune disorder characterized by dry eyes
        (keratoconjunctivitis sicca), dry mouth (xerostomia) as
        well as involvement of other exocrine glands. While 1SS is
        typically considered an autoimmune exocrinopathy, the
        immune destruction can often extend to affect non-exocrine
        organs. Around 25 % of patients with 1SS can present with
        involvement of other organs such as the thyroid, central
        nervous system, lungs, kidney and liver. The association of
        liver disease and 1SS was suggested more than 40 years ago
        [ 1 ] . While liver involvement in 1SS has been considered
        "rare" [ 2 ] only a few clinical studies specifically
        address this complication and evaluate the association of
        liver function tests abnormalities with the severity of
        1SS [ 3 4 5 6 ] .
        Liver diseases associated with 1SS include primary
        biliary cirrhosis (PBC)-autoimmune cholangitis [ 8 9 10 ] ,
        autoimmune hepatitis [ 5 6 ] , viral hepatitis (B and C) [
        11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 ] , sclerosing cholangitis
        [ 22 ] , and nodular regenerative hyperplasia [ 23 ] . In
        addition, chronic lymphocytic sialadenitis has been found
        in patients with different types of liver cirrhosis [ 16 17
        18 19 20 21 22 23 24 ] .
        We report the results of a review of cases undertaken to
        determine the prevalence of abnormal liver function tests
        (LFTs) and liver disease in patients with 1SS referred to
        a tertiary care center and the association of abnormal LFTs
        with other systemic features and autoimmunity markers of
        1SS.
      
      
        Methods
        
          Statistical analysis
          The statistical analysis included descriptive measures
          (means, standard deviations and ranges). Comparison of
          results of patients with and without liver disease was
          done using t-tests of continuous variables and Fisher's
          exact test or x2 for categoric measures.
        
      
      
        Results
        Of the 115 charts reviewed, 73 cases (55 women and 18
        men, median age 53) fulfilled EECC for 1SS and were
        initially included for analysis. Of the 73 patients, a 54%
        of them (40 patients) have had a salivary gland biopsy
        performed. In all these patients, the biopsy confirmed the
        diagnosis of Sjgren's syndrome. All patients studied had
        objective evidence of 1SS, including keratoconjunctivitis
        sicca, positive labial salivary gland biopsy,
        autoantibodies and/or salivary gland hypofunction. We
        excluded those patients without these objective criteria of
        1SS and also those who did not fulfill EECC criteria.
        The mean age at time of onset of disease was 45  20.5
        years old and disease duration was 4.9 years  4.5 years
        (mean  range). Liver function tests had been determined in
        59 patients (80.8 %) and abnormal liver function tests were
        found in 29 of the 59 patients (49.1 %). Further analysis
        was then undertaken in those patients in whom LFTs had been
        measured. The clinical and laboratory characteristics of
        these patients are shown in Tables 2and 3.
        For these SS patients studied, abnormal LFTs were more
        common than any other potential non-exocrine features of
        SS. Clinical evidence of liver disease, defined in methods
        section, was found in 12 patients (20.3%), all of whom had
        abnormal liver function tests. Two deaths occurred in the
        population studied, both attributed to liver failure. An
        additional patient required a liver transplant. In all
        cases, the diagnosis of 1SS antedated the onset of liver
        disease or its diagnosis. Markers of viral hepatitis,
        sought in 39 patients, were found only in 4. Two patients
        carried the surface antigen of hepatitis B virus and one
        had antibodies to hepatitis C virus. In a liver biopsy of a
        patient who lacked serological markers for hepatitis
        viruses, hepatitis B virus was detected by 
        in situ hybridization.
        Risk factors for liver disease were identified in 40% of
        the patients with abnormal liver function tests and are
        described in Table 4. No association with tobacco use was
        found. Only 5 patients had documented evidence of tobacco
        consumption. We found no significant differences in risk
        factors for abnormal liver function tests among patients
        with or without hepatic involvement. Therefore, in 60% of
        the patients with sub clinical or clinical evidence of
        liver disease, no clear explanation for the abnormal LFTs
        was found, except for the association with 1SS.
        The pattern of biochemical liver abnormalities was
        mainly hepatocellular (defined as predominant increase of
        AST and/or ALT in comparison with AP and/or bilirubins) in
        11 cases; cholestatic (defined as predominant increase in
        AP and/or bilirubins compared with AST and/or ALT) in 3 and
        mixed (evidence of both cholestatic and hepatocellular
        damage) in 8 cases. Abnormalities were persistent (present
        on every occasion when measured more than once) in 19
        patients (65.5% of those with abnormal LFTs), intermittent
        (presence of LFT abnormalities was not found in all
        determinations) in 9 (31%) and in one case (3.5%) there was
        only one determination of liver function tests. The pattern
        of liver enzyme abnormalities is shown in Figure 1. None of
        the patients with abnormal liver function tests had
        clinical evidence of muscle involvement that could explain
        the high levels of amino-transferases. Activity of CPK or
        aldolase was not elevated when measured in 15 of the 29
        patients with abnormal liver function tests.
        Anti-mitochondrial antibodies (AMA) and anti-smooth muscle
        antibodies (ASMA) were sought in 5 patients, with positive
        ASMA in 2.
        The association of abnormal liver function tests with
        other non-exocrine features of 1SS is shown in Figure 2.
        Patients with abnormal liver function tests were more
        likely to have lung, kidney or hematological
        manifestations, when compared to Sjgren's patients without
        liver disease. Presence of other non-exocrine features of
        1SS was not influenced by prevalence of liver
        diseases.
        Regarding laboratory test results, patients with liver
        disease were more likely to have an elevated sedimentation
        rate at some point during the course of their disease. A
        positive anti-ENA (anti-Ro, anti-Ro/La, and/or anti-RNP)
        was also associated with an increased prevalence of
        abnormal liver function tests (Figure 3). The sample was
        too small to determine whether a specific ENA was
        associated with liver disease. Other markers of systemic
        inflammation or autoimmunity did not correlate with the
        presence or absence of LFT abnormalities.
        Liver biopsies, done in 8 patients, disclosed post-viral
        chronic active hepatitis (3), cryptogenic cirrhosis (2),
        and one case each of post-viral cirrhosis, alcoholic
        hepatitis, and autoimmune hepatitis.
      
      
        Discussion
        In this group of Sjgren's patients seen at a tertiary
        care center, abnormal liver function tests were found to be
        a common non-exocrine feature of 1SS. The prevalence of
        this association was found to be higher in our study than
        in other previous series [ 2 3 4 5 6 7 ] . The true
        prevalence could be even higher since liver enzyme profiles
        were not done in all patients. The prevalence suggested in
        previous reports ranges from 6 to 58 %, but the definition
        of hepatic disease varies from the unspecific (e.g.
        hepatomegaly) to well proven cases of liver disease [ 1 2 3
        4 5 6 7 28 ] . Denko in 1960 reported that 12% of patients
        with SS had hepatosplenomegaly [ 29 ] . Other studies done
        in the 1960's also confirmed hepatomegaly in 18-20% of
        patients with SS [ 30 31 ] . In 1970, Whaley reported liver
        disease in 6% of patients with SS and mentioned an
        association with anti-mitochondrial antibodies [ 2 ] . In
        1986, Tsianos and co-workers described 22 SS patients with
        gastrointestinal complications, called from a large cohort;
        only two patients had liver disease, each with chronic
        active hepatitis [ 4 ] . Other studies have reported
        variable prevalence [ 3 28 ] and different
        histopathological findings in liver biopsies ranging from
        cholestatic liver damage (stage I primary biliary
        cirrhosis) to chronic active hepatitis due to hepatitis C
        virus.
        In our study, liver disease was associated with other
        non-exocrine manifestations of 1SS, specifically those
        affecting lung, kidney and blood cells. Those patients with
        serological evidence of systemic inflammation, as shown by
        an elevated sedimentation rate, were more likely to have
        liver test abnormalities. Also, the presence of a positive
        anti-ENA correlated positively with hepatic disease. An
        association of ENA response with liver disease has been
        described in children with autoimmune hepatitis, where
        anti-ENA-positive patients demonstrated more severe liver
        test abnormalities than those who were anti-ENA-negative [
        32 ] . In another study, a 15 % of patients with various
        chronic liver diseases were found to be anti-RNP positive [
        33 ] .
        With etiopathogenesis of 1SS still an open question [
        34 ] , a possible role of hepatitis C virus (HCV) has drawn
        attention. Recent studies have mentioned HCV incidence in
        patients with 1SS ranging from 14-19% [ 11 12 16 18 21 ] .
        Phenotypic characterization of the minor salivary glands
        with immunohistochemistry in patients with hepatitis C
        virus infection and/or 1SS has given conflicting results [
        14 15 ] Some reports mention that the salivary gland
        findings are strikingly similar in patients with liver
        disease associated with HCV infection than in those with
        1SS [ 12 ] , while others mention distinctive differences
        between both groups regarding focus score, expression of
        surface markers in lymphocytes infiltrating the salivary
        glands and in epithelial cells, as well as differences in
        the degree of inflammation [ 14 15 ] . Transgenic mice
        models that carry the HCV envelope genes develop an
        exocrinopathy affecting salivary and lachrymal glands [ 19
        ] . Expression of autoimmunity markers also tends to differ
        between HCV-infection and 1SS. Positive ENAs are rarely
        seen in HCV-patients. Also, in most cases sicca symptoms
        are not present in individuals with HCV as compared with
        the 1SS population. Although the prevalence of viral
        hepatitis markers in our group of patients with liver
        disease was very low and did not account for most of the
        cases with abnormal liver function tests, these markers
        were not sought in a small percentage of these patients. It
        is important to note that HCV appears to account for a
        subgroup of patients with exocrine complaints in which half
        the cases might meet the definition for SS according to
        European and Manthorpe criteria. However, this subgroup is
        characterized by the absence of clinical manifestations
        observed in 1SS, and the absence of anti-Ro and anti-La [
        35 ] .
        An aberrant interaction between lymphocytes and
        different epithelial tissues has been proposed as a
        mechanism for the damage seen in different organs in 1 SS
        [ 36 ] . Since it has been suggested that the target tissue
        involved in the autoimmune histopathologic lesions of 1SS
        might be the epithelium [ 37 ] , it is interesting that the
        findings in our study point to the association of liver
        disease with pulmonary and renal abnormalities, all which
        are characterized by epithelial damage [ 38 39 ] .
        Epithelial cells have been proposed to be active
        participants rather than passive targets in the chronic
        immune response in 1SS but further studies are needed to
        establish the role of liver epithelial cells in the
        pathogenesis of hepatic damage in this disease, including
        the analysis of HLA expression and cytokine secretion
        pattern in these cells.
        The co-existence of liver disease and the presence of
        circulating AMAs in Sjgren's patients sera has been
        pointed as an indicator that liver pathology might be
        autoimmune and similar to that of primary biliary cirrhosis
        [ 4 7 8 10 ] . In previous studies, a pericholangial
        lymphocytic infiltration similar to that found in stage I
        of primary biliary cirrhosis, has been reported in 1SS
        with abnormal liver function tests or positivity for AMA [
        4 7 ] . In our review of cases, we found predominance in
        hepatocellular liver damage rather than cholestatic
        disease, which would argue against a PBC-type of liver
        damage. Other authors had proposed that SS associated with
        PBC should be considered a form of secondary SS that
        resembles more the "sicca complex" with exocrine features
        seen in patients with rheumatoid arthritis [ 40 41 ] .
        Limitations of the study come primarily from being a
        retrospective analysis. Since the patients were studied in
        a tertiary care referral center, the severity of the
        disease and the prevalence of the manifestations might be
        different from the general 1SS population. Furthermore, in
        many cases, Sjgren's syndrome diagnosis had been sought
        because of otherwise unexplained non-exocrine features.
        While we could not find an association between use of
        NSAIDS or other medications and prevalence of liver
        function tests abnormalities, the study design did not
        allow us to exclude the possibility of over-the-counter
        (OTC) medication use that could have affected LFT's
        measurement. Drug toxicity is certainly an important factor
        to be considered. However, given that most patients had
        persistent rather than intermittent abnormalities of LFTs
        and that the use of hepatotoxic drugs was not elicited in
        the majority of patients with liver abnormalities, a toxic
        effect of medications could not be established.
      
      
        Conclusions
        Based on the results of this study, we consider that an
        evaluation for clinical and serological evidence of liver
        disease should be done in every patient with 1SS,
        particularly if there is evidence of other non-exocrine
        complications or serological evidence of systemic
        inflammation. Although no other diagnosis explaining liver
        disease may be found, the disorders for which treatment
        might be beneficial (e.g. immunosuppressants for autoimmune
        hepatitis, interferon-alpha for viral hepatitis,
        ursodeoxycolic acid for primary biliary cirrhosis) warrant
        a diligent search in all cases of 1SS with abnormal liver
        function.
      
      
        Competing interests
        None.
      
      
        Authors' contributions
        Both authors contributed equally to the paper.
      
    
  

  
    
      
        
        Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, recently called attention to
        the clear inequalities in science between developing and developed countries and to the
        challenges of building bridges across these gaps that should bring the United Nations and
        the world scientific community closer to each other (Annan 2003). Mr. Annan stressed the
        importance of reducing the inequalities in science between developed and developing
        countries, asserting that This unbalanced distribution of scientific activity generates
        serious problems not only for the scientific community in the developing countries, but for
        development itself. Indeed, Mr. Annan's sentiments have also been echoed recently by
        several scientists, who present overwhelming evidence for the disparity in scientific
        output between the developing and already developed countries (Gibbs 1995; May 1997;
        Goldemberg 1998; Riddoch 2000). For example, recent United Nations Educational, Scientific,
        and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) estimates (UNESCO 2001) indicate that, in 1997, the
        developed countries accounted for some 84% of the global investment in scientific research
        and development, had approximately 72% of the world researchers, and produced approximately
        88% of all scientific and technical publications registered by the Science Citation Index
        (SCI). North America and Europe clearly dominate the number of scientific publications
        produced annually, with 36.6% and 37.5%, respectively, worldwide (UNESCO 2001).
        
          
            North America and Europe clearly dominate the number of scientific
            publications produced annually.
          
        
        It is rather obvious that richer countries are able to invest more resources in science
        and therefore account for the largest number of publications. It is also likely that there
        is a statistical bias on the part of the SCI as a bibliometric database, since it
        represents North American and European publications far better than those of the rest of
        the world (Gibbs 1995; May 1997; Alonso and Fernndez-Juricic 2001; Vohora and Vohora
        2001). But is the disparity in scientific contributions between the developed and
        developing worlds actually remaining unchanged or even increasing, as Mr. Annan has
        implied? A closer look at the trends over the last decade reveals important advances in
        developing countries. For example, Latin America and China, although representing,
        respectively, only 1.8% and 2% of scientific publications worldwide, have increased the
        number of their publications between 1990 and 1997 by 36% and 70%, respectively, which is a
        much higher percentage than the increments reached by Europe (10%) and industrial Asia
        (26%). The percentage of global scientific publications from North America actually
        decreased by 8% over the same period (UNESCO 2001).
      
      
        Publishing Trends in the Americas
        Using the SCI databases produced by the Institute for Scientific Information (ISI), as
        well as data compiled by the Red Iberoamericana de Indicadores de Ciencia y Tecnologa
        (RICYT), we examined the differences in the number and proportion of scientific
        publications between the developed world and the developing world from 1990 until 2000,
        focusing on the Americas as a case study. Not surprisingly, there was a huge disparity in
        the number of publications from 1990 until 2000, with the United States contributing the
        lion's share (84.2%), followed by Canada (10.35%). Latin America as a whole contributed
        only 5.45% to the total number of scientific publications in these ten years (RICYT
        2002).
        The total number of publications, however, is not necessarily the best measure for
        assessing scientific productivity or technical advances (May 1997). More relevant
        measurements for these factors include the proportional change in the number of
        publications and the total number of publications when corrected for investment in research
        and development (May 1997). The proportional change in the number of publications, using
        1990 as a comparison, revealed that scientific publishing in Latin America increased the
        most rapidly in the Americas, far outpacing the United States and Canada (Figure 1).
        Further analyses, correcting the number of overall publications for the amount of money
        invested in research and development for each region, also show that, in contrast to both
        Canada and United States, the trend in Latin America has been an increase in relative
        output throughout the 1990s (Figure 2). Moreover, when taking into account the amount of
        research money available to researchers, Latin America actually out-published the United
        States and Canada by the year 2000 (Figure 2). Although the cost of research is undoubtedly
        cheaper in the developing world due to relatively low researcher salaries, overhead and
        other work standards, these factors do not explain the substantial increase in the number
        of publications per amount of money allocated to research and development in Latin America,
        particularly from 1995 until 2000 (Figure 2).
        Other relative indicators of scientific productivity, such as the number of publications
        picked up by the SCI in relation to the number of scientists in a particular country, also
        demonstrate that such developing regions as Latin America are making substantial
        contributions to science, despite the fact that the average proportion of gross domestic
        product (GDP) invested in science in Latin America throughout this 10-year period was only
        21% of the amount invested in United States (RICYT 2002). Indeed, this scientific
        productivity is remarkable when we compare it with the relatively low investment in science
        itself as compared with the GDP of Latin America as a whole. In fact, Albornoz (2001)
        concluded that, as a group, Latin America could afford to invest a much higher proportion
        of its resources in scientific research and development. Latin American investment in
        research and development represented only 0.59% of the regional GDP in 1998, a very weak
        effort compared with that of the United States (2.84%) and Canada (1.5%).
        Among Latin American countries, there is a high degree of variability in publication
        rate as well as in financial investment in science and technology. Some countries have
        performed particularly well. For example, Uruguay, Chile, Panama, and Cuba averaged,
        respectively, 6.8, 5.3, 5.2, and 3.4 publications per million dollars of research and
        development investment in the 10 years studied, which is notoriously high compared with
        United States (1.5) and even Canada (3.3) (RICYT 2002). Other countries, such as Costa
        Rica, Cuba, Brazil, and Chile, have invested a much greater proportion of their GDP in
        research and development than the other countries of this region (Albornoz 2001).
        
          
            Why has the number of publications per dollar invested in research and
            development been increasing in Latin America while decreasing in United States and
            Canada?
          
        
      
      
        Explaining the Increase in Publishing Productivity in Latin America
        One potential explanation for the increase in scientific productivity in Latin America
        is that scientific development during the 1990s was particularly strong for many countries
        of this region. Indeed, this would explain the rapid rise in the number of publications in
        Latin America compared with the relatively flat increases in the United States and Canada,
        which were publishing just as well at the beginning of the decade. A potentially more
        important question, however, is why the number of publications per dollar invested in
        research and development has been increasing in Latin America while decreasing in the
        United States and Canada. This pattern could be the result of a variety of factors, none of
        which are mutually exclusive. It is possible that publishing in international journals as a
        measure of scientific productivity is becoming more important in Latin America. Increased
        funding to the most productive scientists from the national science development programs
        might have been an important stimulus. International cooperation resulting in more
        scientific collaborations among scientists in Latin America, Europe, and the United States
        may also have increased the relative number of publications in Latin America. In contrast,
        the decreasing trends in the number of publications per investment dollar in Canada and
        United States could reflect a trend towards more costly research in larger scientific
        programs.
      
      
        Scientific Impact from Latin America
        What, exactly, is the relative impact of such developing regions as Latin America on the
        scientific community? We used SCI 2001 data to examine the proportion of publications in
        the area of ecology (including the fields of evolutionary biology, conservation biology,
        and global change biology) between 1990 and 2002 in both the two top general science
        journals (
        Nature and 
        Science ; with impact factors of 27.96 and 23.33, respectively) and in
        the 20 top ecological journals (with impact factors of 10.512.47) (ISI 2001a). We credited
        a region with a publication if any of the authors were affiliated with institutions from
        that region. Thus, more than one region would receive credit for a single publication if
        that publication had been written by multiple authors from institutions of different
        regions.
        For the top 20 ecological journals, the American subcontinents of South, Central, and
        North America accounted for 62% of the publications worldwide. Within the Americas,
        however, Latin America represented only 6%, while Canada and United States accounted,
        respectively, for 13% and 82% of the top 20 ecological publications. When we examined the
        data as contributions to the top 10 ecological journals (impact factors 10.513.31) versus
        the top 1120 (impact factors 3.282.47), the Latin American countries contributed nearly
        twice as many publications to journals in the second category (8% in the top 1120 compared
        with 4% in the top 10). These findings suggest that publications from such developing
        regions as Latin America are falling short of reaching the top journals. In contrast, the
        United States contributed somewhat more publications to the top 10 journals (84%) than the
        top 1120 journals (79%). The difference in the proportion of publications contributed by
        the United States to the top 10 and top 20 journals was even more pronounced when we
        examined it in respect to worldwide publications. In this case, the United States
        contributed 60% of the publications to the top 10 journals and only 40% of the publications
        to the top 1120 journals.
        Interestingly, the proportion of publications from Latin America, the United States, and
        Canada across all subject areas in 
        Science and 
        Nature were nearly identical to those of the top 20 ecological journals.
        In 
        Science and 
        Nature , Latin America had 7% of the publications within the Americas
        versus 6% in the top 20 ecological journals, whereas the United States and Canada had 81%
        versus 82% and 12% versus 13%, respectively. These similarities suggest that the Latin
        American researchers are not shying away from the two top-ranked general science journals.
        However, publishing in 
        Science and 
        Nature was not enough to gain prominence, as evidenced by the number of
        citations of these researchers. The latest list of the 247 most-cited researchers in
        ecology and environmental sciences emphasizes the overwhelming contributions of authors
        from North America (73%) and Europe (21%) (ISI 2001b). No researcher working in a Latin
        American institution was included in the remaining 6%. Overall, these data indicate that
        the scientific output in the field of ecology in Latin America is having a relatively low
        impact in the international scientific community and is underrepresented in the top
        international journals, despite its robust productivity as measured by the number of
        publications per researcher funding amount. Similar findings were also reported for Asia
        (Swinbanks et al. 1997) and thus could be a general phenomenon in the developing world.
        Although there are outstanding scientific researchers in the developing world who
        independently are making important contributions to the international scientific community,
        they are the exception. Why, in general, do Latin American scientists often fail to reach
        the top journals or become amongst the most cited researchers in their fields? One
        possibility is that the main research agendas between both regions are somewhat different
        and that the top journals, which are published in the developed world, respond more to the
        scientific mainstream of the developed regions. This is not to suggest any sort of
        conspiracy, but rather it implies that the perception of the most important science is
        linked to the region and that because the major funding agencies as well as most prominent
        journals share a similar economic region, they also share the same perception of what
        science is most interesting to them. Another consideration is that more local journals from
        developed regions are listed by the SCI than similar journals from developing regions
        (Gibbs 1995). Consequently, there are more high-profile regional publication opportunities
        available to scientists from the developed region, whereas much of the research published
        locally in the developing world is overlooked. But it takes more than publishing good
        papers to become a highly cited scientist. It requires attending international meetings and
        introducing novel research findings in multiple scientific forums. Funding these
        activities, however, requires a greater proportion of research money being spent on
        meetings for researchers in the developing compared with the developed world.
      
      
        A Long Road Yet to Travel
        The positive trends in scientific productivity in Latin America should not be
        misinterpreted as a reason to be unconcerned about the existing gap highlighted by Mr.
        Annan. There are many compelling reasons for the push to increase scientific input from the
        developing world (Goldemberg 1998; Annan 2003). One is that science, as a discipline, would
        benefit from the contributions of many disparate groups around the world, rather than being
        dominated by two geographic regions. Many scientific problems could be solved much more
        readily with the cooperation and scientific insight of scientists from developing regions.
        Climate change and biodiversity research, for example, urgently need the scientific input
        from those developing regions that are so important for these global processes. It is also
        critical for the developing world to promote, through research and publications, those
        areas of concern that are having a proportionally greater scientific and social impact upon
        them. There are now examples in which research on priority areas for the developing nations
        can actually become pioneering work in areas neglected by the research agenda of the
        industrialized world. This has been the case for research on renewable energy sources in
        Brazil (Goldemberg 1998) and biomedical sciences in Cuba (Castro Daz-Balart 2002). These
        examples are important not only for those regions of the developing world, but are also in
        themselves scientific innovations that can greatly advance the knowledge of the rest of the
        world.
        
          
            Climate change and biodiversity research urgently need the scientific
            input from those developing regions that are so important for global processes.
          
        
        Although the evidence presented here demonstrates that there is a long way to go before
        developing countries contribute a more equitable share to the international scientific
        community, there are also reasons to be optimistic. The relative increase in the number of
        publications, especially when corrected for the amount of money available in research and
        development, demonstrates that many developing countries are heading in the right
        direction. The extremely high scientific productivity of many developing nations, corrected
        for and despite the rather limited availability of funds, suggests that increased funding
        to the sciences will be an excellent investment by developing nations in terms of
        publications as a measure of scientific output, particularly if these publications can
        target the journals that have the greatest impact. Although there may still be a long road
        to travel, we feel optimistic that the bridges mentioned by Mr. Annan are slowly being
        built.
      
    
  

  
    
      
        
        There is a much-quoted saying, attributed to the epidemiologist Geoffrey Rose: A large
        number of people exposed to a small risk may generate many more cases than a small number
        exposed to a very high risk. This is true for many individual risk factors such as salt
        intake (linked to high blood pressure and cardiovascular disease) and speeding on the
        highway (linked to injuries and accidents). Does it apply to many other global health
        risks? The study by Anthony Rodgers and colleagues suggests that it does.
        To develop effective health policies, one must understand the existing health risks and
        disease burdens. On a worldwide scale, this is a tough challenge. The Global Burden of
        Disease Database, maintained by the World Health Organization (WHO), collects data from
        countries around the world on risk factors such as tobacco, malnutrition, childhood abuse,
        unsafe sex, childbirth, and cholesterol levels, as well as on disease burdens, for example
        depression, blindness, and diarrhea. A large group of scientists from all over the world
        has developed a framework to analyze these data. To compare different risks or burdens,
        they calculate disability-adjusted life-years, or DALYsthe number of healthy life years
        lost because of a particular disease or risk factor.
        Rodgers and colleagues used data from the WHO database for 26 risk factors and from 14
        epidemiological subregions of the world to calculate the proportion of
        risk-factor-attributable disease burden in different population subgroups defined by age,
        sex, and exposure level. For being underweight in childhood, for examplethe leading risk
        factor for global loss of healthy lifethey found that only 35% of the disease burden
        occurred in severely underweight children, the rest occurred in those only moderately
        underweight. The relative risks for the moderately underweight are much lower, but the
        number of children in that category is so large that the total attributable burden amounted
        to almost two-thirds of the total global burden of disease for that risk factor.
        The analysis confirmsand extends to a global levelprevious research showing that many
        major health risks are important across the range of exposure levels, not just among
        individuals exposed to high levels of risk. It also points to risk factors that are
        particularly prevalent among specific populations and age groups, and for which highly
        targeted interventions could be effective.
        Despite numerous caveats and limitations of studies like this one, such analyses are
        essential aids in guiding the distribution of limited funds to lower the burden of life
        years lost to premature death and disability.
      
    
  

  
    
      
        Introduction
        The concept of lung fibroblasts as effector cells in the
        pathogenesis of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) has
        recently evolved [ 1 2 ] . Lung fibroblasts respond, 
        in vitro , to inflammatory cytokines
        by producing growth factors and collagen, resulting in
        fibroblast proliferation and extracellular matrix
        deposition [ 2 3 4 ] . In addition, activated lung
        fibroblasts have been shown to produce large amounts of
        inflammatory cytokines and chemokines, 
        in vitro , and hence, these cells may
        also have a role as effector-inflammatory cells [ 1 2 ] .
        This capacity to produce both inflammatory and fibrotic
        factors could mean that phenotypically altered lung
        fibroblasts act simultaneously as effector and target
        cells, via paracrine and autocrine mechanisms, perpetuating
        the fibrotic process [ 2 ] .
        Prostanoids are important regulators of fibroblast
        function [ 5 6 7 8 9 ] . Prostaglandin (PG)E 
        2 is thought to have antifibrotic
        properties 
        in vitro , but also can have
        proinflammatory effects both 
        in vivo and 
        in vitro [ 10 11 12 ] . Thromboxane
        (TX)A 
        2 increases proliferation, and DNA and
        RNA synthesis in several cell types, including fibroblasts
        and smooth muscle like glomerular mesangial cells [ 13 14
        15 16 ] . Conversely, prostacyclin (PGI 
        2 ) decreases smooth muscle cell
        proliferation and collagen synthesis [ 17 18 ] .
        Many cell types, including lung fibroblasts, contain
        cyclooxygenase (COX), a proximal enzyme in prostanoid
        production, and can generate prostanoids [ 19 ] . It has
        been previously reported that IPF lung fibroblasts have
        decreased COX-2 expression compared to normal lung
        fibroblasts and, hence, have decreased PGE 
        2 production [ 12 20 21 ] . Because of
        these findings and the fact that PGs are important
        fibroblast regulators, we sought to investigate whether
        abnormalities in COX-2 expression could be associated with
        an altered balance between profibrotic and antifibrotic
        PGs. We hypothesized that fibroblasts from the lungs of
        patients with IPF (HF-IPF) have an altered PG balance
        compared to normal lung fibroblasts (HF-NL). This
        phenotypical abnormality could be an important factor in
        the pathogenesis of IPF.
      
      
        Materials and methods
        
          Primary lung fibroblasts
          Fibroblasts from the lungs of seven patients (6 males)
          with IPF (HF-IPF) were harvested: a) from excised lung at
          the time of lung transplantation; b) during an autopsy
          performed within 4 hours from death; or c) during open or
          transbronchial lung biopsies at the time of diagnosis. Of
          the seven patients, five subjects had advanced lung
          fibrosis and were receiving prednisone 
          immunosuppressive agents; 2 patients were at an earlier
          stage of their disease and were not receiving
          immunosuppressive drugs. The mean age of the patients was
          59 (range 43-71)]. HF-NL were cultured from five human
          lungs that arrived at our transplant center with the
          intention of being used for transplantation, but for
          various reasons could not be transplanted; these were
          macroscopically and microscopically normal. The cells
          were harvested and cultured as per the protocol described
          by Kumar 
          et al. [ 22 ] . Briefly, lung
          tissue sections were finely cut with sterile scissors and
          incubated with serum free DMEM containing trypsin, DNAse
          and collagenase for 30 min. The procedure was repeated
          twice, and the supernatants were pooled and cultured in
          one 100 mm plate and incubated at 37C in a 5% CO 
          2 humidified atmosphere. Culture
          medium (DMEM with 5% fetal bovine serum [FBS] and
          penicillin/streptomycin) was replaced three times per
          week and fibroblasts were passed (1:2 split) at the time
          they became confluent. On passage 4 the cells were
          resuspended in 1 ml of DMEM with 20% FBS and DMSO and
          frozen at -70C. For each experiment described below the
          cells were thawed, cultured and passed at least once. All
          the experiments were conducted with cells at passages 6
          to 8.
        
        
          Inducible cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 expression and
          eicosanoid production
          COX-2 activity was determined by measuring PGE 
          2 , 6-keto-PGF 
          1 (stable PGI 
          2 metabolite), TXB 
          2 (stable TXA 
          2 metabolite), and PGF 
          2 production in stimulated
          fibroblasts. HF-IPF (n = 7) and HF-NL (n = 5) were
          brought to >90% confluency in 100mm plates and then
          placed on serum free DMEM for 24 hours to render them
          quiescent. Fibroblasts were then incubated in DMEM with
          5% FBS alone or in the same medium with IL-1 (2.5 ng/ml)
          for 24 hours. At the end of the incubation period the
          supernatant was aspirated and fresh media containing 30
          M of arachidonic acid was added to the plates. After 30
          min of incubation the supernatant was collected and saved
          at -70C for later eicosanoid analysis. The cells were
          then resuspended and divided into two aliquots, which
          were used for RNA and protein extractions, respectively.
          The above experiments were repeated in HF-IPF (n = 2) and
          HF-NL (n = 2) using serum free media conditions.
          Prostanoids were measured by modified stable isotope
          dilution assays that used gas chromatography-negative
          ion-chemical ionization mass spectrometry as previously
          described [ 23 ] . Briefly, deuterium-labeled internal
          standards of PGE 
          2 , PGF 
          2 , TXB 
          2 , and 6-keto-PGF 
          1 were added to the supernatants with
          isopropyl alcohol. Isopropyl alcohol was removed by
          evaporation under nitrogen. After acidification to pH
          3.5, the samples were extracted on preconditioned C-18
          PrepSep columns (Fisher Scientific, Fair Lawn, NJ), and
          eluted with ethyl acetate. The extract was then converted
          to a pentafluorobenzyl ester by treatment with a mixture
          of 12.5% pentafluorobenzyl bromide in acetonitrile and
          disopropylethylamine at room temperature for 30 min.
          After evaporation of reagents, the residue was subjected
          to TLC plates, using the solvent system
          chloroform/ethanol (93:7, vol/vol) for PGF 
          2 and TXB 
          2 , and ethyl acetate/methanol (93:2,
          vol/vol) for 6-keto-PGF 
          1 and PGE 
          2 . Then PGF 
          2 was converted to trimethylsilyl
          ether derivative by treatment with N,O-bis
          (trimethylsilyl) trifluoroacetamide and
          dimethylformamide. The methoxime derivative of TXB 
          2 , PGE 
          2 and 6-keto-PGF 
          1 was made by treatment with 2%
          methoxamine hydrochloride in pyridine at 70C for 60 min,
          followed by evaporation of the pyridine, addition of
          water, and extraction with ethyl acetate. Derivatization
          was completed by formation of the trimethylsilyl
          derivatives by treatment with N,O-bis (trimethylsilyl)
          trifluoroacetamide and pyridine. Eicosanoids were
          quantified by measuring the ratio of the intensity of
          ions m/z 569/573 for PGF 
          2 , m/z 614/618 for TXB 
          2 and 6-keto-PGF 
          1 , and m/z 524/528 for PGE 
          2 . An analytical blank for each of
          these products was determined by measuring the amount of
          nondeuterated material, detected after extracting and
          analyzing 2 ml of saline to which the deuterium-labeled
          internal standards had been added.
        
        
          Western analysis
          After washing with PBS at pH 7.4, pellets were lyzed
          in solubilization buffer containing 50 mM TRIS at pH 8,
          1% Tween 20, 10 mM phenylmethylsulphonyl fluoride,
          diethyldithiocarbamic acid, leupeptin and pepstatin A
          (all from Sigma Chemical), sonicated, boiled with gel
          loading buffer (62.5 mM TRIS-HCl, at pH 6.8, 10%
          glycerol, 2% SDS, 5% -mercaptoethanol, and bromophenol
          blue), and centrifuged at 15,000 x 
          g for 10 min. Equal amounts of
          protein (70 to 100 g) were separated by electrophoresis.
          SDS-PAGE was performed using a 7.5% separating gel with a
          4% stacking gel. The resolved proteins were transferred
          electrophoretically to nitrocellulose membranes
          (Hybond-ECL, Amersham Corp.). After transfer, the filters
          were incubated overnight at 4C in a blocking solution
          (20 mM TRIS base, 137 mM sodium chloride at pH 7.6, 5%
          powdered milk, 3% BSA), and incubated with primary
          polyclonal rabbit antibodies against COX-2 at a dilution
          1:1000 (Cayman Chemical, Ann Arbor, MI), for 1 hour at
          room temperature. The filters were washed (TBS-0.1% Tween
          20 at pH 7.6) and incubated with horseradish peroxidase
          linked secondary antibodies at a dilution 1:4000
          (Amersham). After washing, the membranes were incubated
          with luminol based chemiluminescence reagent (DuPont NEN
          Research Products, Boston, MA).
        
        
          Northern analysis
          Cell pellets were lyzed and RNA extracted using the
          RNeasy method (Qiagen), following the manufacturer's
          instructions. RNA was quantified by determining light
          absorbance at 260 nm and then fractioned by
          electrophoresis (10 g per lane) on a 1% agarose
          MOPS/formaldehyde gel. The RNA was denatured prior to
          loading by incubating the RNA at 65C for 10 min in a
          loading buffer comprising 1X MOPS, 50% formamide, 6.5%
          formaldehyde, 5% glycerol, 0.1 mM EDTA, 0.025%
          bromophenol blue, 0.025% xylene cyanol. The RNA was
          transferred by gravity-assisted capillary method with 6X
          SSC to nylon hybridization membrane, and then fixed to
          the membrane by UV crosslinking (Stratalinker 1200 j/cm
          2). Prehybridization and hybridization were performed at
          42C and using Quick Hyb (Stratagene) as hybridization
          solution. The COX-2 probe was random primed following the
          directions of the manufacturer (Megaprime ,
          Amersham/Pharmacia). The membrane was then washed at a
          final stringency of 0.2X SSC, 0.1% SDS, at 60C for 30
          min. The membrane was wrapped in plastic wrap and exposed
          to Kodak XR film at -70C with intensifier screen
          overnight.
        
        
          Statistical methods
          All results are presented as medians with their range.
          Comparisons between HF-IPF and HF-NL were done using the
          Mann-Whitney test. A 
          P value of <0.05 was considered
          significant.
        
      
      
        Results
        
          Baseline and stimulated COX-2 activity in HF-IPF
          and HF-NL
          Unstimulated eicosanoid production was similar in both
          HF-IPF and HF-NL (Fig. 1, a-d). When fibroblasts were
          stimulated with IL-1 there was a significant and similar
          upregulation of PGE 
          2 production in both HF-IPF and HF-NL
          (28.35 [range: 9.09-89.09] versus 17.12 [8.58-29.33]
          ng/10 6cells/30 min, respectively; 
          P = 0.25; [Fig. 1a]).
          IL-1-stimulated production of TXB 
          2 (stable metabolite of the active TXA
          
          2 ), PGF 
          2 , and 6-keto-PGF 
          1 (stable metabolite of PGI 
          2 ) increased modestly in every case,
          except TXB 
          2 production by HF-NL, which decreased
          (0.75 [0.15-2.58] ng/10 6cells/30 min at baseline versus
          0.61 [0.21-1.64] ng/10 6cells/30 min with IL-1
          stimulation) (Fig. 1b). Results of PGE 
          2 production were similar when
          experiments were conducted in serum free media conditions
          (results not shown).
          IL-1 stimulated TXB 
          2 production was significantly greater
          in HF-IPF (1.92 [1.27-2.57] ng/10 6cells/30 min) than in
          HF-NL (0.61 [0.21-1.64] ng/10 6cells/30 min; 
          P = 0.007) (Fig. 1b); baseline TXB 
          2 production was not significantly
          different between the two cell groups (1.73 [0.77-2.53]
          versus 0.75 [0.15-2.58] ng/10 6cells/30 min, in HF-IPF
          and HF-NL, respectively; 
          P = 0.17 [Fig. 1b]). Because PGI 
          2 and TXA 
          2 have opposing effects 
          in vivo , we calculated the ratio
          of their metabolites (6-keto-PGF 
          1 :TXB 
          2 ) and found a significantly lower
          ratio in HF-IPF at baseline (0.08 [0.04-0.52] versus 0.12
          [0.11-0.89] in HF-IPF and HF-NL, respectively; 
          P = 0.028) and a similar trend
          under stimulated conditions (0.24 [0.05-1.53] versus 1.08
          [0.51-3.79] in HF-IPF and HF-NL, respectively; 
          P = 0.09 [Fig. 2]).
        
        
          Baseline and stimulated COX-2 expression
          Western blot in unstimulated fibroblasts showed no
          detectable COX-2 protein in either group of cells, while
          IL-1 significantly induced COX-2 to a similar degree in
          IPF and normal lung fibroblasts (Fig. 3). Northern blot
          showed minimal COX-2 mRNA in unstimulated cells and
          significant upregulation of COX-2 mRNA expression when
          stimulated with IL-1 in both HF-IPF and HF-NL (Fig.
          4).
        
      
      
        Discussion
        Several factors modulate fibroblast proliferation and
        collagen production, including mitogenic cytokines (e.g.,
        transforming growth factor  [TGF], platelet-derived
        growth factor [PDGF], basic fibroblast growth factor
        [bFGF]), eicosanoids (i.e., PGE 
        2 , TXB 
        2 , and PGI 
        2 ), and antifibrogenic cytokines (e.g.
        IFN-) [ 1 2 3 ] . It is very likely that a complex
        interaction among these factors exists in the tissue repair
        process, and it is possible that pathologic fibrosis, as in
        IPF, results from phenotypical alterations in fibroblasts
        that affect the "normal" interaction of these factors.
        Our results show that stimulation of primary cultures of
        human lung fibroblasts with the proximal cytokine IL-1
        upregulates COX-2 protein and mRNA expression to a similar
        degree in normal and IPF fibroblasts. TXA 
        2 production tended to be greater in IPF
        than in normal fibroblasts at baseline; when stimulated
        with IL-1 this difference became statistically
        significant. The ratio of PGI 
        2 to TXA 
        2 metabolites was lower in IPF
        fibroblasts at baseline and with IL-1 stimulation. The
        above results suggest that a decreased PGI 
        2 :TXA 
        2 ratio could be a phenotypic alteration
        present in IPF fibroblasts, resulting in a loss of their
        capacity to autoregulate proliferation and extracellular
        matrix production.
        The effects of PGs on cell proliferation and collagen
        production have been widely studied in different cell types
        [ 13 14 15 16 17 26 ] . TXA 
        2 has been studied extensively because
        of its apparent role in atherosclerosis, due to its
        prothrombotic and mitogenic activities on vascular smooth
        muscle cells [ 15 16 ] . These mitogenic effects are
        potentiated by growth factors [ 15 16 27 28 ] . In vascular
        smooth muscle cells TXA 
        2 stimulates synthesis of bFGF and
        increases the expression of the proto-oncogenes 
        c-fos , 
        c-myc , and 
        egr-1 , which are associated with
        entry into the cell growth cycle [ 15 ] . In addition, TXA 
        2 increases proliferation of fibroblasts
        [ 13 ] and smooth muscle-like glomerular mesangial cells [
        14 ] .
        On the other hand, PGI 
        2 decreases vascular smooth muscle cell
        proliferation and collagen and glycosaminoglycane
        synthesis, via activation of adenylyl cyclase and
        subsequent production of cAMP [ 17 ] . Betaprost, an analog
        of PGI 
        2 , decreases procollagen I and III mRNA
        expression in cardiac fibroblasts [ 18 ] . These effects
        may counteract the profibrotic effects seen with TXA 
        2 and it is possible that an alteration
        of a "normal" physiologic balance between PGI 
        2 and TXA 
        2 could increase tendency towards
        fibrogenesis.
        It is important to mention that our experiments were
        conducted at similar passage levels (passage 6 to 8) in
        both groups, since senescence of fibroblasts is associated
        with a shift from the biosynthesis of PGI 
        2 to TXA 
        2 [ 24 25 ] . It is possible that the
        difference seen in our study between HF-IPF and HF-NL could
        result from comparing fibroblasts of different ages. HF-IPF
        might have been harvested from fibrotic lesions where
        fibroblasts had previously undergone a greater number of
        cell divisions than HF-NL, obtained from nonfibrotic lungs.
        Although this is a possibility, the age-related shift in PG
        production has only been shown at very high cell passages
        and has not been documented 
        in vivo .
        We also found that both HF-IPF and HF-NL had similar PGE
        
        2 production at baseline, and a similar
        increase when stimulated with IL-1. PGE 
        2 can decrease fibroblast proliferation
        and collagen synthesis, and increase collagen degradation [
        5 6 7 8 ] .
        Recent reports suggesting decreased COX-2 expression and
        PGE 
        2 production in IPF fibroblasts have
        received significant attention [ 12 20 21 ] . In our study
        we found that both COX-2 protein expression and PGE 
        2 production were upregulated to a
        similar degree in IPF and normal lung fibroblasts. We
        believe that differences in methodology and patient
        selection may explain the discrepancies with other studies.
        Vancheri and collaborators [ 20 ] found that
        TNF--stimulated fibrotic lung fibroblasts had decreased
        COX-2 expression and PGE 
        2 production, but they further showed
        that these findings were a result of decreased expression
        of TNF- receptors. The latter finding would argue against
        a primary defect in COX-2 expression, since no other
        stimulus, other than TNF-, was tested. In another study,
        Keerthisingam 
        et al. [ 21 ] reported that fibrotic
        lung fibroblasts had decreased COX-2 expression and PGE 
        2 production in response to TGF
        stimulation. This study differed from ours in that a
        different stimulus was used. Of significance is the fact
        that the COX-2 gene is known to be NF-B dependent, and
        IL-1, but not TGF, is a potent inducer of NF-B
        activation. Hence, the pathway involved in the induction of
        the COX-2 gene by IL-1 and TGF may be different.
        Furthermore, a significant proportion of the fibroblasts
        used in the study by Keerthisingam 
        et al. [ 21 ] were obtained from
        patients with systemic sclerosis, which makes their
        fibroblast population more heterogeneous.
        Wilborn 
        et al. [ 12 ] also reported a
        decreased production of PGE 
        2 by IL-1-stimulated IPF fibroblasts,
        due to decreased COX-2 expression [ 12 ] . There is a
        possibility that patient selection may have differed
        between the two studies. However, we feel certain that the
        diagnostic accuracy of our patient population was high, due
        to the fact that 5 out of a total of 7 IPF subjects
        included in our study underwent lung transplantation with
        confirmatory pathology results consistent with IPF. The
        other 2 subjects had biopsy-proven IPF. In addition, our
        results were similar when comparing lung fibroblasts
        obtained from 5 subjects with advanced stage IPF with those
        of 2 subjects at an earlier stage of their disease, who had
        received no therapy. Although the reasons for our different
        results are unclear, the fact that we found similar COX-2
        expression and PGE 
        2 production in normal and IPF lung
        fibroblasts suggests that loss of COX-2 expression is not a
        universal characteristic of fibroblasts cultured from the
        lungs of subjects with IPF.
      
      
        Conclusion
        We have found that fibroblasts cultured from normal and
        IPF human lungs have a significant and similar induction of
        the COX-2 enzyme when stimulated with IL-1, but that IPF
        fibroblasts produced more thromboxane and had a
        significantly lower prostacyclin:thromboxane ratio. We
        hypothesize that the lower PGI 
        2 :TXA 
        2 ratio seen in HF-IPF may be a
        phenotypic alteration that plays a role in the pathogenesis
        of IPF.
      
      
        Abbreviations
        COX = cyclooxygenase; HF = human fibroblasts; NL =
        normal lungs; IPF = idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis; IFN =
        interferon; IL = interleukin; PG = prostaglandin; TX =
        thromboxane; PGI 
        2 = prostacyclin.
      
    
  

  
  
    
      
        a brief History
        Prehistoric man in Asia Minor (now modern Turkey) or Greece
        could look out across the Aegean toward the horizon and see the faint
        silhouette of land. Their curiosity pushed them to build vessels that
        were strong enough to ford the open seas and reach these islands,
        marking the start of the long legacy of Mediterranean seafaring.
        Around 7000 b.c. , the Phoenicians set out from what is now
        Iran to explore their surroundings. They eventually reached the
        islands, and founded colonies on the islands in the northernmost part
        of the Aegean Sea. An important early material, obsidian, was
        discovered on the island of Milos. Obsidian is a hard, vitreous
        volcanic rock, which could be fashioned into tools for cutting and
        stabbing. The high quality of the seam on Milos ensured that the area
        remained popular with early travelers.
        The basic elements of life in the Aegean began to come
        together as early as 5000 b.c. , and were already in place by the late
        Bronze Age (c. 2700 b.c. ). The major changes were not to daily tasks
        and routines, but to the political power base, which changed regularly
        and not necessarily peacefully throughout the ages.
        Cycladic Culture
        At around 3500 b.c. , a sophisticated culture evolved in the
        Cyclades islands. The distinctive, sculpted marble figures of the era
        are now being reproduced in vast quantities as souvenirs. You will find
        original examples in the archaeological museums throughout the
        Cyclades, although one of the earliest examples is in the museum on
        Paros. The people farmed and fished; on the dawning of the Bronze Age
        in 2700 b.c. , they began to work with metals. The Cycladic culture was
        influenced by societies in the east, importing the pottery wheel from
        Mesopotamia. They also continued to trade in obsidian and the local
        marble.
        The Minoans and the Myceneans
        Farther south in Crete, the Minoan culture developed after
        2000 b.c. into the most significant of its age, spreading its influence
        throughout the region by trade and diplomacy. Santorini (Thira), the
        next major island north, was heavily influenced by Crete, and the
        settlements of Thira and Akrotiri thrived at this time. The magnificent
        frescoes and mosaics found at Akrotiri are in Athens at present, but
        the remains of the buildings at the site provide ample evidence of the
        sophistication of the culture here.
        Around 1500 b.c. , a massive volcanic eruption at Santorini
        destroyed not only Akrotiriunder feet of ash and pumicebut the
        whole Minoan civilization. Massive tidal waves swept over Crete, and
        other parts of the Mediterranean, smashing buildings and drowning many
        thousands of people.
        In the wake of this tremendous natural upheaval, the Aegean
        Islands next came under the influence of the Mycenaeans (at around 1300
        b.c. ), who had a base in the Peloponnese region of the Greek mainland.
        The Mycenaeans were an acquisitive race who came to conquer, not to
        trade. Their extensive military campaigns were later chronicled by
        Homer in his epic poems The Odyssey and The Iliad.
        The Rise of Athens
        The Dorians, who came overland from northern Europe,
        conquered the Mycenaeans. They were a barbaric race, and their custody
        of the area brought about a dark period during which the written word
        was forgotten and art disappeared. They held sway over islands off the
        northern Greek coast, but the Phoenicians kept control of the main sea
        routes; south of the area, trade continued as usual. At the same time,
        city-states began to grow in influence on the southern Greek mainland.
        Athens became the most powerful, heralding the start of the classical
        Greek period. However, Greece was not yet a country; each city-state
        was self-governing and autonomous.
        The new culture spread throughout the Mediterranean, helped
        by a huge increase in migration from the mainland to new settlements
        such as Carthage, a Greek city on the African coast of the
        Mediterranean. Culture and the arts flourished once again. Athletic
        prowess was admired and the Olympic games were constituted in 776 b.c.
        , to promote friendly competition. Homer wrote his epic works on Chios;
        and lyrical poetry was much admired, particularly the work of the poets
        Archilochos on Paros and Sappho on Lesvos.
        The preeminent islands of this era were Delos, a sacred
        island and center of religion ruled by Athens; Samos, ruled by the
        tyrant Polycrates; and Naxos, whose ruler Lygdamis undertook some major
        building projects. Archaeology shows that, during this time, societies
        lived mainly in coastal trading towns with little settlement
        inland.
        The Persian Wars
        As Athens rose in influence and power in the West, it was
        matched in the East by the rise of the Persian Empire. From a power
        base in Anatolia, the Persians overran the eastern Aegean Islands and
        set their sights on the Cyclades. In 490 b.c. , they captured sacred
        Delos and razed the settlements on Naxos. The island communities were
        undecided about which side to back for a time. Paros and Andros
        contributed to the Persian armory, while others supported Athens. The
        two superpowers finally clashed at the epic battles of Marathon and
        Salamis in 480 b.c. The Persians were defeated, and Athens duly
        punished the islands that had turned against it.
        Following its victory, Athens introduced the concept of a
        mutual protection alliance (a kind of NATO of the ancient world).
        Several islands and Greek city-states agreed to work together, and
        created a treasury to fund their plans, which was held on the island of
        Delos. The alliance became known as the Delian League. Although there
        were minor internal wrangles, the league controlled the Aegean and the
        greater Athenian Empire for most of the fifth century b.c. Later, in
        454 b.c. , the treasury was transferred to Athens and its deposits were
        used to finance the construction of many of the major buildings and
        temples of the Classical Age.
        In 431 b.c. , Athens began a war with its neighbor and
        league member Sparta. Although the islands saw little action, as the
        war went on they could see that Athens was slowly losing its power.
        Before the end of the war in 401 b.c. , many islands had already
        transferred their allegiance to the victors, who were led by Philip II
        of Macedon. He was followed in 336 b.c. by his son Alexander the Great,
        one of the most remarkable leaders in history. His rise to power
        ushered in the Hellenistic period.
        Hellenistic and Roman Periods
        When Alexander went on to conquer lands as far to the east
        as India, the Aegean became a crossroads for the long trading routes.
        Delos became one of the largest marketplaces in the empire. Following
        Alexanders death, his lands were divided among his generals. Much of
        the Aegean came under the rule of the Ptolemies, along with Egypt.
        Cleopatra was a member of this famous ruling clan.
        Although in 88 b.c. , Mithradates made a swift and
        successful raid from the East across Asia Minor and the Aegean Islands,
        the next major power change brought influence from the West. The Greek
        Hellenistic Empire was gradually, and peacefully, absorbed into the
        Roman Empire.
        The Byzantine Empire and the Coming of Christianity
        The Romans ruled a pagan empire, but the Aegean had an
        important influence on the early development of Christianity. In a.d. 
        95, St. John arrived on Patmos, a small rocky island in the Dodecanese,
        as a political prisoner. It was here that he wrote what was to become
        the final book of the New Testament, the Book of Revelation. It wasnt
        until a.d. 330, however, when the newly converted Emperor Constantine
        made Byzantium, renamed Constantinople, capital of his Eastern Empire
        that Christianity was assured of its dominant role in future Greek
        life.
        The Byzantine Empire had powerful and well-fortified
        cities, but the countryside and the outlying islands were ravaged by
        waves of invaders. In an attempt to counter a threat from the Saracen
        Muslims, a new potent religious force from the East, the Byzantine army
        forcefully enlisted the men of the islands. Disease took a further
        toll. By the time of the Crusades, many of the Aegean islands had been
        practically depopulated.
        As the Byzantine Empire weakened at the end of the first
        millennium, Crusader forces were sent from Western Europe to counter
        the Muslim forces and retake Jerusalem for the Christian faith.
        Unfortunately, their zeal was not matched by their discrimination. The
        crusaders swept through the l;and of Byzantium slaughtering Christians
        as well as Muslims, civilians as well as soldiers. Constantinople was
        taken by Crusader forces in 1204, and they stripped the city of manyof
        its finest treasureswhich now grace the public buildings of
        Venicealthough a large consignment of books and manuscripts was
        transferred to the monastery at Patmos before the city fell.
        While Byzantine land was being divided, there was no one in
        control of the seas, so pirates raided towns on many of the islands. To
        counter this, the populations moved from their homes on the coast and
        built settlements inland, out of sight of the raiding parties. This
        created a pattern seen today throughout the Aegean of a small port
        (skala) which serves an inland settlement or chora, making it easier to
        protect the island from attack.
        The minor Aegean Islands were taken by various powerful
        European noblemen, many of whom were Genoese or Venetian, such as Marco
        Sanudo on Naxos. The noblemen had free rein to create their own
        fiefdoms. The Venetians fortified their main townsNaxos Town and
        Antiparos Town are wonderful examples of thiscreating labyrinths of
        narrow alleys and cul-de-sacs that were designed to confuse and to
        demoralize invaders. The Genoese took control of the eastern Aegean
        Islands, which were considered the most valuable for agriculture and
        trade.
        After a final bloody defeat by the Muslims in 1309,
        Christian forces were forced from the Holy Land. The Knights of St.
        John, a holy military force, made their way to Rhodes and Kos in the
        Dodecanese. They began the process of building their strong citadels,
        and reinforcing the Christian faith on the islands. However, they had
        not seen the last of their Muslim foe. A force was gaining strength in
        the east to threaten their new bases.
        The Coming of the Ottoman Turks
        The Ottomans were roving invaders who came from the east,
        taking land in what is now Turkey. By the end of the 13th century, they
        began their first raids on the Aegean Islands. In 1453, they took
        Constantinople, and immediately made it their capital, renaming it
        Istanbul.
        They then set their sights on the islands of the Knights of
        St. John and, after an unsuccessful siege in 1480, they finally ejected
        the knights from the Dodecanese in 1522. In 1566, they wrested Chios
        from the Genoese, bolstering their hold on the eastern Aegean Islands,
        but the Cyclades remained in Venetian hands for another generation or
        moreTinos was the last to fall in 1715. The Ottomans brought new
        influences to the islands that they controlled, forming a large empire
        that stretched around the eastern Mediterranean.
        Toward Greek Independence
        However, a movement was growing on the Greek peninsula
        against Ottoman rule and for an independent Greek state. In 1770,
        Russia came to aid the Greeks (defined by their Orthodox religion
        rather than by historical geographical boundaries), declaring war on
        the Ottoman Empire and occupying several Aegean islands until 1774.
        Graffiti written by Russian soldiers can be seen in the caves of
        Antiparos.
        Although this attempt was unsuccessful, the campaign for a
        Greek state continued into the 19th century and began to grow in
        strength. The Aegean Islands played their part. Lesvos, Chios, and
        Samos lay in the important shipping lanes, and patriots began
        disrupting Ottoman cargo traffic. In return, the Turks violently put
        down every insurrection, including the massacre on Chios, when 22,000
        people were slaughtered.
        The Ottoman Empire was weakening, however, and in 1821, the
        peoples of the Greek mainland achieved nationhood for the first time.
        The Cyclades and the Sporades island chains were also included in this
        new state. A new sense of identity enveloped Greek peoples throughout
        the Aegean, thus commencing a movement to expand Greece and unify the
        disparate Orthodox populations.
        The Twentieth Century
        A series of disastrous decisions at the beginning of the
        20th century began to sound a death knell for the Ottoman Empire. The
        Turks lost a short war with Italy, and were forced to relinquish the
        Dodecanese islands to the Italians. Greece took this opportunity to
        absorb the islands of the northern and eastern Aegean and to add
        Macedonia to its mainland territories.
        Following this debacle, the Ottomans then allied themselves
        to Germany in the World War I, losing more territory with the defeat of
        the Germans in that war. Greece was handed a strip of land along the
        western coast of Asia Minor, which for over 2,000 years had had a
        substantial Greek population. Greece moved in to administer the land,
        but a new influence upset any grand dreams of making this region a part
        of greater Greece.
        In 1923, Turkey broke away from the tired Ottoman rulers,
        and Kemal Ataturk rose to power on a wave of popular support. He
        promised a modern state for his people, but as the situation became
        volatile, civil strife broke out in Turkish cities, and those
        considered Greek were victims of threats and violence. Many had to
        leave their birthplaces, fleeing to Lesvos, Chios, and Samos, the
        Greek-ruled islands just offshore. Thousands of people arrived with
        little more than the clothes they wore, putting great strain on the
        resources of the islands. Finally, Greece was ousted from its new
        territory in Asia Minor, which became part of the new Turkish
        state.
        Greece attempted to stay out of World War II, but Mussolini
        saw Greece as an ideal addition to his Italian empire. His forces made
        a series of attacks from their bases in the Dodecanese islands,
        including sinking a Greek naval vessel in the harbor of Tinos Town, but
        they only succeeded in strengthening the resolve of the population
        against them. Later the Germans came in force and occupied many of the
        islands.
        After the war, in 1949, the Dodecanese islands finally
        became part of the Greek nation. But the country was politically
        fragmented, with arguments between monarchists and republicans, right
        and left, and tension escalated into civil war. The struggle bypassed
        most of the islands, although there was fierce fighting on Samos. Even
        after the fighting stopped more than a decade later, the country was
        not stable.
        At the same time, the massive growth in air and road
        transport saw shipping decline in importance. The Aegean Islands, which
        for centuries had been important ports on the trading routes, became
        the backwaters of this new transport network and the economies of
        several islands came close to collapse.
        In 1967, the military took the reins of power in Athens,
        and until 1974, the Colonels held sway with a repressive and brutal
        regime. Many Greek islanders chose to leave rather than live in poverty
        and terror, and many made new homes in the United States and Australia.
        The expansion of air travel began the age of mass tourism, and Greece
        along with the Aegean Islands became exciting destinations for northern
        Europeans escaping their damp, cool summers.
        In 1982, Greece joined the European Common Market (now the
        European Union). Since this time, membership has been of great monetary
        benefit to the country. The EU has given large subsidies to develop
        Greeces infrastructure and grants to excavate and protect its ancient
        monuments.
        Airfields have been constructed on a number of the islands,
        and road systems have been expanded and im proved. Private investment
        has even made an increasingly modern ferry fleet possible.
        Politically, the 1990s have been relatively quite times for
        the islands, although the divorce of Greek prime minister Andreas
        Papandreou and his subsequent marriage to a much younger woman caused
        consternation within conservative Greek society.
        As the Balkans flared to war once again, Greek nationalism
        has stirred, and there have been discussions in the kafeneion about the
        land of Macedonia returning to the fold of its forefathers. Whether
        this will ever happen remains to be seen, but perhaps the aid offered
        by Greece to Turkey after 1999s devastating earthquake is a sign that
        the animosity between these two traditional enemies is beginning to
        diminish.
      
    
  

  
  
    
      
        A Brief History
        Jerusalems recorded history begins with its mention in
        Egyptian court records 4,000 years ago, but there had been human
        settlements here for centuries, probably millennia, before that. At the
        beginning of the second millennium b.c. , Jerusalem was a Canaanite
        mountain stronghold on a secondary trade route, far less important than
        biblical cities such as Hazor, Megiddo, Beth Shean, and Shechem. The
        earliest name associated with the city, Ur usalim, perhaps meant city
        of Shalim or founded by Shalim.  Scholars speculate that Shalim
        might have been an ancient Semitic deity of peace, for the name
        resembles the modern Hebrew and Arabic words for peace: shalom and
        salaam, respectively. If true, this is an ironic name for a city that
        would become one of the most constantly and bitterly embattled places
        on the face of the earth.
        Biblical Jerusalem
        In the Bible, Genesis 14:1820 records that Abraham visited
        the city of Salem in approximately 1800 b.c. and was blessed by the
        citys ruler, Melchzedik, who offered him bread and wine. The city is
        not mentioned again in the Bible until the time of the great poet
        warrior, King David, who captured the city from the Jebusites in about
        1000 b.c. The Bible describes how Davids soldiers conquered Jerusalem
        by discovering a water tunnel under the walls and using it to take the
        city by surprise. Warrens Shaft, part of a Canaanite water system
        discovered by 19th-century archaeologists and open to visitors, might
        be the very tunnel infiltrated by Davids army.
        Perhaps because Jerusalem was in neutral territory not
        allotted to any of the twelve rival tribes of Israel, David made it the
        capital of his newly formed kingdom and brought the most talented
        artisans, dedicated priests, magical poets and musicians, and the most
        formidable soldiers from each of the tribes to live in his city. He
        also brought the Ark of the Covenant, the portable tabernacle
        containing the Tablets of the Law received on Mount Sinai, to the
        Spring of Gihon, just outside the walls of Jerusalem. There the Ark
        rested until it was placed in the Temple, built in approximately 960
        b.c. on Mt. Moriah, the high point at the northern end of the city.
        The Temple (today known as the First Temple) was completed
        by Davids son and successor, King Solomon. According to biblical
        tradition, although David bought the land for the Temple and carefully
        assembled its building materials, he was deemed unworthy of
        constructing the Temple because he was a man of war with blood on his
        hands. At the Temples dedication, Solomon addressed his God: ... the
        Heavens, even the Heaven of the Heavens, cannot contain Thee; how much
        less this House that I have built? 
        The site of the Temple eventually became identified as Mt.
        Moriah, on which it stood, where Abraham was called to sacrifice his
        son Isaac. Along with this splendid house of worship, Solomon built a
        royal palace, mansions for his wives, temples for the foreign gods
        worshipped by the princesses he had married, and towers for the defense
        of the capital. Under the wise reign of Solomon, the city flourished as
        the capital of an empire that stretched from Damascus to the Red Sea
        and controlled the trade routes from Egypt to Phoenicia. The Temple and
        royal palace were adorned with gold and ivory from Africa and with
        cedar from Lebanon; the beauties and glories of Jerusalem under Solomon
        have captivated readers of the Bible for almost 3,000 years. But with
        his death the empire collapsed, and the Israelite kingdom was divided
        into two separate, impoverished, often warring nations: Israel, with
        its capital at Shechem in the north, ruled by a series of northern
        dynasties; and the smaller kingdom of Judah, with its capital at
        Jerusalem, from which the Davidic dynasty continued to rule. The Bible
        tells us that the cruelty and impiety of the rulers of both kingdoms
        aroused the fury of the great Prophets.
        In 701 b.c. the Assyrian armies of Sennacherib destroyed
        Israel and moved southward to besiege Jerusalem. Thanks to King
        Hezekiahs hidden water tunnel, the city narrowly escaped destruction.
        The end of Davids dynasty came in 587 b.c. , when Nebuchadnezzar, King
        of Babylon, invaded Judah to lay siege to Jerusalem. When it fell, the
        Temple and all the buildings were burned. The people of the
        once-glorious city were forced into an exile known as the Babylonian
        Captivity. 
        In time, the kingdom of Babylon was overthrown and the
        Israelites were permitted to return to Jerusalem in 539 b.c. The city
        was now under the more tolerant rule of the Persians, but rebuilding
        was slow work. The Second Temple was finished in 515 b.c. , but much of
        the city still lay in ruins.
        Jerusalem submitted peaceably to the rule of the Greeks in
        332 b.c. under Alexander the Great and, subsequently, to his
        Hellenistic successors as well as the Egyptian Ptolomeys and the Syrian
        Seleucids. When Seleucid rulers outlawed Judaism, Jews led by Judah
        Maccabee and his brothers staged a revolution in 167 b.c. and, against
        all odds, restored the primacy of Jewish religious life in Jerusalem.
        The Macabbees cleansed the Temple of Hellenistic idols and the blood of
        pagan sacrifices; the eight-day celebration of Hanukkah (Feast of
        Dedication) commemorates their victory. The Hasmonean dynasty,
        descendants of the Maccabee family, ruled an independent Jewish
        Commonwealth that stretched from the Negev to the Galilee. Jerusalem
        grew, surrounded with a formidable wall and defended by towers beside
        the Jaffa Gate. The Hasmoneans ruled until Pompeys Roman legions
        arrived in 63 b.c.
        Roman Jerusalem
        After the initial years of Roman administration and
        political infighting, Rome installed Herod (scion of a family from
        Idumea, a Jewish kingdom in the desert) as King of Judea. He reigned
        from 37 to 4 b.c. , during which time he fortified the Hasmonean wall
        and rebuilt the defense towers beside Jaffa Gate, the foundation of
        which still stand. Several palaces were built and a water system
        installed. Herod also completely rebuilt the Temple, making it one of
        the most important religious centers in the Roman Empire. The courtyard
        around the Temple was expanded to accommodate hundreds of thousands of
        pilgrims, and the Temple Mount was shored up by retaining walls made
        with great stone blocks. One of these walls, the Western Wall, is today
        a major reminder of Jerusalems greatness under Herod. A massive
        fortress was built overlooking the Temple Mount, which Herod named
        Antonia in honor of his Roman friend and benefactor, Mark Antony.
        For all his accomplishments, Herod was nevertheless hated
        by his subjects; he taxed, he tortured, and he ordered the massacre of
        male Jewish infants in an attempt to do away with the heralded Messiah.
        When Jesus was born in about 4 b.c. , Joseph and Mary escaped Herods
        paranoia by fleeing into Egypt with the new-born infant. They returned
        to live in the Galilee village of Nazareth, making pilgrimages to
        Jerusalem.
        According to biblical accounts, Jesus spent his life
        ministering in the Galilee Valley. In about a.d. 30 he and his
        followers went for Passover to Jerusalem, which was in unrest at this
        time, dissatisfied with Roman domination. Jesuss entry into the Temple
        caused a commotion; after the Passover dinner he was arrested by the
        temple priests, who were under direct Roman rule. Jesus was put on
        trial quickly and condemned to crucifixion, a Roman form of execution
        for political and religious dissidents as well as for common criminals.
        In a province rife with rebellion and retaliation, the execution in
        Jerusalem of yet another religious leader from the Galilee did not by
        itself have an immediate effect on history.
        After Jesuss crucifixion, harsh Roman rule continued until
        a.d. 66, when the Jews rebelled. For four years Jewish zealots fought
        against the might of Rome. At the end, the Roman general Titus laid
        siege to Jerusalem in a.d. 70, finally attacking its starved and
        weakened defenders. Those who didnt escape were executed or sold into
        slavery. The Holy City and the Temple were destroyed. The last of the
        zealots held out for another three years at Masada (see page 76). Half
        a million civilians died in the Galilee and Judea as a result of this
        first revolt against Rome, a number unequaled in ancient warfare.
        Christian and Islamic Jerusalem
        For 60 years Jerusalem lay in ruins, until the Roman
        Emperor Hadrian ordered the city rebuilt as a Roman town dedicated to
        Jupiter. In outrage, the Jews began a second revolt against Rome, led
        by Simon bar Kochba. The ruins of Jerusalem were briefly liberated,
        but, in the end, Jewish resistance to Rome was defeated with great loss
        of life. The planned new Roman city, Aelia Capitolina, was built over
        the ruins of Herodian Jerusalem, and Jews were barred from residing
        there for all time. Jerusalems physical existence as a spiritual city
        seemed finished, but its spiritual power for Jews, and for the
        struggling new Christian religion, remained. For the next two centuries
        Aelia Capitolina enjoyed an innocuous history.
        But the Roman Empire became Christian in the fourth
        century, and Jerusalem became a center of religion once again. Queen
        Helena, a devout Christian and the mother of Emperor Constantine the
        Great, made a pilgrimage to the Holy Land in 326 to identify the sites
        associated with Jesuss life. She found that the citys most beautiful
        Roman temple, dedicated to the goddess Aphrodite, stood on the site of
        the crucifixion. The temple was demolished and a vast, Classical-style
        church was built around Golgotha (the hill where Jesuss crucifixion
        was believed to have taken place). Throughout Jerusalem, other spots
        important to Jesuss life were commemorated with religious structures.
        Pilgrims came from all over the Roman (and, later, Byzantine) Empire
        during the following centuries, but the prosperity they brought lasted
        only until 614, when Persian armies overtook Judea and reduced
        Jerusalem to rubble again. In 629, Jerusalem was recaptured by the
        Byzantines.
        Still reeling from the effects of the Persian devastation,
        Jerusalem was conquered in 638 by the forces of Islam. The Temple Mount
        was identified in Islamic tradition as the farthest spot (in Arabic,
        el-aksa), the site to which the Prophet Muhammad was transported in one
        night from Mecca on a winged horse, as described in the 17th chapter of
        the Koran. From here the Prophet ascended to the heavens and was
        permitted to glimpse paradise. The rock on the Temple Mount from which
        he ascended, at or close to the site of the ruined Temple, was
        commemorated by the construction of the Dome of the Rock in 691. The
        Dome of the Rock remains Jerusalems most striking monument; it is
        counted among the most beautiful buildings ever created. By about 715,
        the El-Aksa Mosque, third holiest place of prayer in Islam (after Mecca
        and Medina), had been built on the southern side of the Temple Mount.
        Jerusalem continued under Islamic rule for the next four and a half
        centuries. In 1099, under their leaders Godfrey de Bouillon and
        Tancred, the Crusaders captured the Holy City for Christendom by
        slaughtering both Muslims and Jews.
        Crusaders, Mamelukes, and Turks
        The Crusaders established a feudal Christian state with
        Godfrey at its head. They built many impressive churches during the
        term of the first Latin Kingdom of Jerusalem, but in 1187 they were
        driven out by Muslim forces under the great warrior Saladin. During the
        Sixth Crusade (1228 1229), the Holy Roman Emperor Frederick II managed
        to secure Jerusalem for the Christians by negotiation.
        The Christians, however, could not hold the city. After
        they lost Jerusalem, a Mongol invasion swept through, and in 1244 the
        Mameluke dynasty of Egypt took control, ruling Jerusalem for the next
        250 years. The city struggled to rebuild from Crusader wars and
        invasions. Much of the best Islamic architecture in the city was
        constructed in the Mameluke era, but the past thousand years had taken
        their toll: Jerusalem was unable to regain the prosperity it had
        enjoyed in earlier times.
        In the early 16th century, the Ottoman Turkish Empire was
        advancing through the Middle East. Jerusalem fell to the Ottomans in
        1517, remaining under their control for 400 years. Suleiman the
        Magnificent rebuilt the walls and gates in the form they retain to this
        day. Fountains, inns, religious schools, and barracks were constructed.
        But when Suleiman died, his empire, including Jerusalem, began a long
        period of decline. The Holy City remained a backwater until the 19th
        century, when renewed interest among Christian pilgrims made it the
        destination of thousands of travelers each year.
        19th-Century Aspirations
        At the same time, many Jews sought religious freedom and
        fulfillment by moving to Palestine (as the Holy Land was traditionally
        called) and especially to Jerusalem. In the 1890s, Theodor Herzl
        (18601904) worked to organize a movement, Zionism, to create a Jewish
        state. Chaim Weizmann (18741952), a scientist born in Russia but later
        a British subject, did much to put Herzls hopes into practice.
        Weizmann was an important figure in the negotiations with the British
        government that led to the Balfour Declaration of 1917, supporting the
        idea of a Jewish national home in Palestine that also respected the
        rights of existing non-Jewish people already living there. The problem
        was that British strategists, who were fighting the Ottoman Turks in
        1917, had secretly promised the lands to their World War I Arab
        allies.
        In 1922 the League of Nations granted the British a mandate
        to administer Palestine. Jerusalem flourished during the early years of
        the Mandate. Modern neighborhoods, hospitals, schools, and the Hebrew
        University were built in West Jerusalem, the new Jewish enclave. But
        Arab opposition to new Jewish immigration and construction in Palestine
        led to increasing strife; by 1946, Jerusalem was an armed camp. In 1947
        the United Nations voted for the partition of Palestine into two
        states, one Jewish and one Arab, with Jerusalem as an international
        city that belonged to neither. But lacking the means to enforce its
        decision, the United Nations was powerless to halt the fighting that
        erupted as the British withdrew their troops in 1948.
        Modern Israel
        The State of Israel was declared during this difficult
        time. In response, member states of the Arab League sent troops to help
        the Palestinian Arabs. West Jerusalem, separated from the rest of the
        new Jewish nation, held out under siege for several months until
        Israeli forces secured a land corridor connecting the city to the
        coastal areas. Jews were evacuated from the Old Citys Jewish Quarter,
        and thousands of Arab families fled their homes in West Jerusalem. As a
        result of armistice agreements in 1949, Jerusalem was divided: West
        Jerusalem was to be under Israeli control, and East Jerusalem
        (including the Old City, with its Jewish, Muslim, Christian, and
        Armenian quarters) came under Jordanian authority. Free access to holy
        sites for members of all religions was guaranteed by the armistice
        agreements. However, with the city partitioned by fortifications and
        barbed wire, no Israeli or Jewish pilgrims were allowed to visit the
        Western Wall or other Jewish sites in East Jerusalem.
        For the next 19 years, Jerusalem was two cities. Political
        and religious boundaries were aggravated by occasional incidents of
        terrorism or sniping until the Six Day War in June 1967. Within three
        days the city was completely in Israeli hands, and in two weeks it was
        physically and administratively reunited. Jerusalems mayor, Teddy
        Kollek, spent the next 25 years orchestrating a vast program of
        development, adding new cultural institutions and parks and instituting
        neighborhood restoration projects while tirelessly me diating the
        concerns of Jerusalems many communities.
        Today, as always, Jerusalem is a city of controversies:
        religious Jews in conflict with secular Jews; Palestinians calling for
        independence; many residents protesting a wave of high-rise development
        that many claim will turn the Holy City into a holy megalopolis. But
        the ideas and mystique that have always made this an extraordinarily
        special place rise above the ebbing and flowing concerns of present-day
        Jerusalem as it continues to tug at the worlds attention into the new
        millennium.
      
    
  

  
  
    
      
        A Brief History
        Early Habitation
        The inhabited history of the Las Vegas Valley stretches to
        23,000 b.c. , when much of the area was covered by a prehistoric lake.
        During this period, the indigenous people lived in caves, hunting the
        mammals that gathered at the shoreline. The landscape of the valley
        changed dramatically over the next 200 centuries. The glaciers feeding
        the lake melted away and the lake evaporated. Fossils tell an obscure
        story of mans slow and sporadic development.
        Around 3000 b.c. , native Archaic Indians began to develop a
        lasting hunting and gathering culture. By this time, the valley was in
        much the same geographic state as it exists in today, with one
        exceptionthe presence of artesian springs that bubbled to the
        surface in several areas. These springs fed a network of streams
        draining through the Las Vegas Wash to the Colorado River. The areas
        surrounding the springs were desert oases: sprawling collections of
        grasses, trees, and wildlife. Many springs lay in areas that would
        eventually become the center of the modern Las Vegas metropolis.
        For about 4000 years, the Archaics thrived in a culture that
        included many signs of early civilization. Signs of even more
        advancement appeared halfway through the first millennium a.d. , when
        the Anasazi Indians inhabited the valley. Far more progressive than the
        Archaics, the Anasazi utilized such formal agricultural techniques as
        irrigation to assist their harvest. This permitted the Anasazi to
        achieve a benchmark of advanced societythe ability to live in
        permanent shelters year-round without need to follow wildlife.
        Mysteriously, the Anasazi vanished from the valley around a.d. 1150,
        leaving it to be repopulated by the Southern Paiutes, another
        hunter-gatherer tribe.
        Unable to replicate the agricultural techniques of the
        Anasazi, the Paiutes were destined to a semi-nomadic lifestyle until
        European settlers arrived, changing the nature of existence in the
        valley forever.
        From Mailmen to Mormons
        In the early nineteenth century, Americas western
        territories were still largely unexplored. It was not until 1829 that
        Rafael Rivera, a Mexican scout, found a spring-fed valley and dubbed it
        Las Vegasa Spanish name that leaves many modern visitors wondering
        exactly where the meadows really lay.
        For fifteen years, Las Vegas was used as a Spanish Trail
        way-station. In 1844, American explorer John C. Fremont parked his
        horses at Big Springs, and his report to the government resulted in a
        mail route leading past the spot on its way to California. This put Las
        Vegas on the map and was one of the crucial turning points of its
        history.
        In 1855, Mormon leader Brigham Young responded to promising
        reports of Las Vegas by sending 30 missionary settlers to the valley;
        they eventually built a fort not far from todays Downtown. Surrounded
        by acres of farmland hewn from the hard desert, the adobe fort became a
        focal point for the development of Las Vegas for the next fifty years.
        The missionaries struggled valiantly against the dictates of the
        desert, trying simultaneously to survive the harshness of their
        circumstances and spread the Mormon faith. Additional pressures from
        arriving miners pushed the missionaries plight beyond recovery. Their
        supplies scarce, their harvest meager, and their spirit broken, they
        abandoned the fort in 1858.
        Despite the fact that the local land was rich in silver, by
        1865 most of the mining traffic through Las Vegas was of prospectors
        headed to California or Northern Nevada in search of gold. One
        opportunist who stayed was Octavius Decatur Gass. Bestowed with plenty
        of the invaluable pioneer spirit that characterizes Las Vegas to this
        day, Gass redirected his life by picking up where the Mormons left
        offat least when it came to ranching and farming. Gass took over the
        abandoned Mormon fort and 640 acres (260 hectares) surrounding it,
        dubbing it the Las Vegas Ranch. He expanded the ranch and irrigated the
        land so that it would support crops and cattle. His determination had
        other results as well: Gass was named a justice of the peace and a
        territorial legislator.
        Despite his ambition, Gass success was short-lived. In the
        late 1870s, he defaulted on a loan from rancher Archibald Stewart, so
        Stewart took the Las Vegas Ranch for his own. True to wild-West
        stereotypes, Stewart was slain by a neighboring farmer, leaving his
        strong-willed wife, Helen, to assume the duties of the ranch. Through
        1905, Helen Stewart expanded the ranch to 2000 acres (810 hectares),
        making quite a bit of money in the process.
        What happened next would mark the end of the successful Las
        Vegas Ranch and the beginning of the era of the subdivision seen across
        almost all of Western America to this day. The railroad was coming, and
        when it arrived, Las Vegas would never be the same again.
        Of Tracks and Tracts
        At the turn of the 19th century Los Angeles and Salt Lake
        City were among the burgeoning metropolises of the new American West.
        Though the two cities remained unlinked by rail, this was about to
        change quickly. When it did, the Las Vegas Valley (which at the time
        had a non-native population of less than 30) would change as well.
        In 1903, officials of the San Pedro, Los Angeles, and Salt
        Lake Railroad arrived in Las Vegas, eager to secure a right-of-way for
        their Los AngelesSalt Lake connection. Las Vegas would serve as a
        major stopover for crew rest and train repair. For all this, the
        railroad needed land. As mapped, the track traveled directly through
        Helen Stewarts Las Vegas Ranch. Stewart sold 99.5 percent of her ranch
        to the railroad. The remainder she returned to the native Paiutes.
        In early 1905, the route between Los Angeles and Salt Lake
        City was completed, and train tracks bore right down the center of the
        Las Vegas Valley. On 15 May 1905, the railroad held a land salea
        momentous step in Las Vegas history. Standing at the depot at Main and
        Fremont streets, railroad officials auctioned 1200 lots they had
        subdivided from forty square blocks of desert scrub. Land speculators
        and locals alike were anxious to own a part of the newest railroad
        boomtown, and within an afternoon, more than 80 percent of the lots
        were sold.
        Las Vegas was no longer a small pioneer settlement. With
        rail service in place and forty blocks of private property, it was
        ready to become a real town. Businesses sprang up overnight, and wooden
        houses were erected to replace the tent city in which many of the early
        settlers had lived. One year after the auction, the population of Las
        Vegas had ballooned to 1500 residents, a portent of things to come for
        the next ninety years.
        Dam Good Luck
        From the beginning, Las Vegas was built to serve travelers.
        The railroad needed a way station, and Las Vegas was the place. Growth
        continued for ten years, and by 1915 the town had telephones,
        round-the-clock electricity, and a growing populationmany of whom
        worked in the railroad repair shop. But such heady progress would soon
        come to a halt.
        The growing competition in rail transport resulted in Union
        Pacific buying the Los AngelesSalt Lake line. Union Pacific then
        consolidated its operations, eliminating the Las Vegas repair facility.
        Additionally, Las Vegas had been made a part of Nevadas new Clark
        County in 1909, a year when the legislature also outlawed gambling.
        These unfortunate circumstances threatened to relegate Las Vegas to the
        status of a small desert community that could no longer support its
        3000 residents. But the southwests growing need for water, combined
        with Las Vegass fortuitous proximity to the Colorado River, would give
        Las Vegas a second chance to achieve prosperity.
        Construction on Hoover Dam (originally Boulder Dam,
        subsequently renamed for the president who authorized the project)
        began in 1931 in a canyon 45 miles (72 km) southeast of Las Vegas.
        Providing an influx of $165 million to the southwestern economy, Hoover
        Dam played a major role in preventing Las Vegas from drying up, both
        financially and literally. Not only did it create jobs, but it also
        created Lake Mead, the massive reservoir that today provides water to
        all of southern Nevada.
        More Government Help
        The construction of Hoover Dam did not single-handedly save
        Las Vegas, however. The state legislature helped as well, by legalizing
        gambling in 1931 and thus solidifying the future of the town, though
        legislators and residents could never have known this at the time.
        The hordes of people who attended Hoover Dams 1935
        dedication set the citys now-formidable public relations machine into
        action. They went to work on what has become one of the lengthiest
        citywide tourism campaigns ever attempted. It didnt take long for the
        city to establish itself as a wild-West town with an anything goes
        attitude. Vices outlawed or heavily controlled elsewhere were legal
        here, available any hour of any day (or night). Thus originated Las
        Vegass reputation as an adult theme park.
        Additional catalysts for the valleys growth came from
        World War II. Both the Las Vegas Aerial Gunnery School (which became
        Nellis Air Force Base and the Nevada Test Site) in the north, and Basic
        Magnesium in the nearby town of Henderson, arrived in the early 1940s
        as a result of Americas war effort. By 1945, the population had grown
        to almost 20,000, with workers and airmen moving in at a rapid pace.
        But this was not yet the Las Vegas of folklore.
        Mobsters and Rat Packers
        While many gambling halls opened Downtown in the 1930s and
        early 1940s, only two were built on the stretch of old Los Angeles
        Highway that ultimately became the Strip. The El Rancho Vegas (1941)
        was the first, followed by the Last Frontier (1943). During this
        period, East Coast Syndicate member Benjamin Bugsy Siegel earned a
        foothold as a local casino operator.
        By 1945 Siegel had become one of Las Vegass original
        visionaries, planning an opulent resort on the southern end of the LA
        Highway. When the Flamingo opened in December 1946, it did so with
        Hollywood flair and the new Vegas flash. But the Mafia bosses who
        financed the operation were displeased with its performance; Siegel was
        murdered in the summer of 1947.
        Despite its initial failings, Siegels Flamingo survived
        him, as did mob infiltration of casinos. In fact, the Flamingo would
        launch over two decades of strong mob presence in Las Vegas. Freely
        flowing comps (complimentary food, drink, and entertainment) were the
        order of the day, with mob bosses content to provide an environment of
        pleasurable excess as long as the cash kept rolling in.
        While the mob was running the casinos, promoters were
        busily selling Las Vegas as a glamorous Hollywood in the desert. From
        the mid-1940s to the mid-1960s, Las Vegas nurtured a growing sense that
        it was the Entertainment Capital of the World.  Emerging stars, no
        longer content with playing small nightclubs, came to Las Vegas with
        dreams of making it big. Many of them did. Frank Sinatra, Wayne Newton,
        and Louis Prima each arrived with mediocre status and suddenly found
        themselves with names as big as the marquees on which they were
        written. The Rat Packoriginally Frank Sinatra, Dean Martin, Sammy
        Davis Jr. , Peter Lawford, and Joey Bishop, all in town to film Oceans
        11landed at the Sands in January 1960 for a legendary stay. Other
        Hollywood stars came as well, simply because Las Vegas was the place to
        be.
        As a result, more casinos emerged along the Strip. The
        Thunderbird, Desert Inn, Sahara, Sands, and Riviera hotels were erected
        during this period, luring a curious clientele drawn by tales of
        all-night partying, exclusive entertainment, and cheap accommodations.
        There was no longer any question: when you wanted some unbridled adult
        fun, Las Vegas was the place to be.
        New Legitimacy
        Organized crime was soon to have a formidable adversary in
        its bid to control Las Vegascorporate cash. Though Las Vegas had
        developed a powerful local economy, few major outside investments were
        made in the city, due primarily to mob infiltration and its inherent
        ties to illegal activities.
        That would change dramatically with the 1966 arrival of
        billionaire Howard Hughes. A legitimate businessman, Hughes was
        nonetheless eccentric and dramatic, a style suited to the Las Vegas
        ethos. True to the myth, the reclusive Hughes immediately cloistered
        himself in the Desert Inns penthouse. Several weeks later he was
        askedthen orderedto vacate the room to make room for high
        rollers, whereupon he promptly bought the property and fired the
        management. Thus began Hughes legendary three-year, $300-million Las
        Vegas buying spree. When it was over, Hughes owned six casinos, an
        airport, and an airline, along with numerous plots of land stretching
        from the Strip to the mountains.
        Hughes actions would have beneficial repercussions, both
        immediate and lasting. Because of the new legitimacy Las Vegas acquired
        from Hughes investments, established companies such as Hilton Hotels
        bought into the gaming business, and their influence helped draw a line
        in the desert sand between legitimate operations and mob casinos, where
        illegal skimming of profits was rampant. That, combined with the
        formation of the Nevada Gaming Control Board, would signal the
        beginning of the end for heavy mob influence in the city.
        Las Vegas with a Vision
        As corporations moved in and the mob was slowly pushed out,
        a new Las Vegas emerged. The legitimization of gambling led to its
        increased legalization across the US. What was once a sure thing became
        much more competitive. Casino operators had to reassess the nature of
        their business.
        The first to really do so was Steve Wynn, a Las Vegas
        resident and owner of the Golden Nugget. In the mid-1980s, Wynn began
        plans to reinvigorate Las Vegas with a new resort. He bought several
        Strip propertiesthe Silver Slipper and Castaways among themand
        demolished them to make way for a new kind of resortMirage which
        became an instant success.
        Wynns demolition of the existing properties started a
        trend that, more than any other, describes Las Vegas at the end of the
        20th century: removal of old properties in exchange for the potential
        of new ones. This trend has led to many more demolitions, including the
        Dunes (replaced by Bellagio), Aladdin (the new Aladdin) and Sands
        (Venetian) hotels.
        Wynns casinos have also set new standards. They can no
        longer be just a box filled with gaming tables, restaurants, and a
        showroom. Excalibur, the MGM Grand, the Luxor, and New York-New York
        all followed Mirages lead during the 1990s, offering themed
        environments and attractions for families.
        As evidence of the ever-faster nature of the city, by the
        middle of the 1990s the new approach showed signs of backlash, with
        many visitors criticizing the mediocrity of the Las Vegas experience.
        The latest approach is perhaps the best of the post-mob era: the
        comprehensive resort. New resorts offer attractions and amenities
        modeled after those available in top resort cities worldwide, including
        luxurious spas, signature restaurants, and exclusive boutiques.
        Additionally, a handful of resortssuch as the South-Seas
        themed Mandalay Bay, the Mirage, and the new Four Seasonsare now
        catering exclusively to the luxury travel market. The crme de la crme
        of Las Vegas deluxe is Steve Wynns Bellagio. The worlds most
        expensive resort at $1.6 billion, the Bellagios amenities include
        5-star dining, Chanel-caliber boutiques, and a world-class collection
        of artistic masterworks. Perhaps more important, such high-end
        accommodations raise the standards of expectations back to the
        mythology of the Rat Pack era.
        As it changed from mob gam bling town to corporate gaming
        venue, the population of Las Vegas skyrocketed. Over 20,000 additional
        hotel rooms have been added in a few short years, including resorts in
        Summerlin and Lake Las Vegas. Recent business projections for Las Vegas
        predict challenges; tourism revenues must increase substantially to
        sustain what is already built, while actual figures show visitation as
        steady or declining. The growth that has characterized Las Vegas for
        nearly a century may be facing a roadblock.
        Still, the future of Las Vegas is sure to be determined as
        much by the pioneering spirit that built the city as by anything else.
        With its new look and new aim, the prospects are good despite the
        warnings. Inevitably, some people will get burned in the process, but
        others will rise triumphantly from the fray to even greater successes.
        And that, more than anything, is the one constant that characterizes
        the past, present, and future of Las Vegas.
      
    
  

  
  
    
      
        Dublin and the Dubliners
        As capital of Europes most explosive economy, Dublin seems
        to be changing before your very eyes. New construction is everywhere,
        the streets buzz, traffic is increasingly congested, and in the
        frenetic pace of rush hour everyone in Dublin seems intent on changing
        places with everyone else. At night the streets are crowded with people
        bent on having a good time. Prosperity is in the air; the roar of the
        Celtic Tiger can clearly be heard.
        But this is not the whole picture. The proverbial
        hospitality and warm welcome are still here. This busy, modern European
        city sits on a thousand years of historyhistory is present
        everywhere, from elegant Merrion Square to the bullet holes on the
        General Post Office. Its also a city of the imagination, reinvented
        and reappraised in the literature of its exiles. And the old Dublin is
        with us, toothe irreverent city of wit and charm and that peculiar
        magic possessed by Ireland and the Irish.
        Prosperity has brought with it a new emphasis on historic
        preservation. Dublin excels in packaging its past for the visitor. You
        can view artifacts from the Bronze Age, trace the history of the Easter
        Rising, or revisit Leopold Blooms odyssey in Ulysses. Old buildings
        are being recycled; for example, the 17th-century Royal Hospital now
        holds the Museum of Modern Art. And Dublin, a city large in
        expectations, is still small enough for the visitor to see most of its
        sights on foot.
        City on the Liffey
        The River Liffey flows from west to east through the center
        of the city to Dublin Bay. The river forms a natural line between the
        north and south sections of the city. This geography is important in
        understanding Dublin. Historically and culturally this north-south
        distinction has always been significant, and it still is today, with a
        dose of good-humored rivalry between the two areas.  I never go north
        of the Liffey, one man remarked.
        Farther out, both north and south, are the sweeping curves
        of the Royal and Grand Canals. The occasional cry of gulls and
        unexpected distant vistas will remind you that Dublin is by the sea,
        and the Wicklow mountains, which hold Dublin closely to the coast, are
        visible from everywhere.
        Dublin is an intimate city, physically small but tightly
        packed, a perfect place for walking. College Green, the home of Trinity
        College, provides a natural focus just south of the OConnell Street
        bridge. OConnell Street, the citys grand boulevard, leads north to
        Parnell Square. To the south and east is St. Stephens Green and
        Georgian Dublin where the national museums are located. Along the
        Liffey to the west is Temple Bar, center of nightlife and home to many
        of Dublins cutting-edge artists and artistic endeavors. Up the hill
        from Temple Bar are Dublin Castle and Christ Church Cathedral.
        It wont rain on you in Dublin all the time. The climate
        here can best be described as changeable and yet the sudden shifts
        from light to dark, sunshine to shower, are part of the citys magic.
        Buildings seem to transform themselves depending on the light; Dublin
        under a lowering sky is a different place from Dublin in sunshine.
        Enjoying Dublin
        Literature has always flourished in Dublin, the only city
        to have produced three Nobel Prize winners for literatureYeats,
        Shaw, and Beckett. Joyce, the high priest of literary Modernism,
        imagined and interpreted Dublin for the world in Ulysses (youll see
        references to it all over). However, sometimes it seems that the city
        produced artists of this stature by accident, even against its will.
        Beckett and Joyce, among others, had to leave their homeland to
        understand itand to be understood.
        Dublin theater is legendary, and no visitor should miss
        seeing a performance at the Abbey Theatre or Gate Theatre. The citys
        impact on the rock and pop music scene with the likes of U2 and Bob
        Geldof is well knowntheres even a self-guided tour of their haunts.
        Traditional Irish music is also alive and well, especially in the pubs,
        and there has been a revival of storytelling, poetry reading, and
        traditional dancing. And in this city, where literature and theater
        have historically dominated the scene, visual arts are finally coming
        into their own with the new Museum of Modern Art and the many galleries
        that display the work of modern Irish artists.
        The constantly crowded and busy Grafton street is the most
        visible center for shopping, but there are shops all over that carry an
        international array of goods as well as the Irish crafts and souvenirs
        you expect. And while multinational chains have made inroads, they seem
        less blatant here than elsewhere. Many shops, and also hotels and guest
        houses, have been owned and managed by the same families for years, and
        theirs is the welcome of traditional Dublin hospitality.
        Dublins food has undergone a metamorphosis. There was a
        time when you might have apologized for it, but no longer. Dublin has
        international restaurants galore, and the New Irish Cuisine is built
        upon fresh products of Irelands seas, rivers, and farms. Coffee has
        replaced the ubiquitous teaDublin is now almost as much a coffee
        city as Vienna or Seattle.
        City and Countryside
        In a city of such human proportions it is not surprising
        that parks and gardens abound for recreation and relaxation. Phoenix
        Park in the northwest is the largest open space, but squares like St.
        Stephens Green are the garden oases of the city.
        On the coast, Sandymount, Dollymount, and Killiney strands
        are the places to go. The beautiful Wicklow Mountains, and the Wicklow
        Mountains National Park provide a more rugged countryside, and the area
        has breathtaking houses and gardens such as Castletown, Mount Usher,
        and Powerscourt. To the north and west are the ancient sites of
        Ireland: Malahide Castle, the evocative hill of Tara, and the long
        barrows of Knowth and Newgrange.
        The DART (Dublin Area Rapid Transit) runs north and south
        along the coast. Its an ideal way for the visitor to reach outlying
        sights and villages. There are many guided bus tours to sights outside
        the city, and some are accessible by city bus.
        Young at Heart?
        Dublin is a young city. Almost half of Irelands population
        is under twenty-five, and with its universities and professional
        schools, Dublin also has a large student population. The universities
        attract students from all over the world, and this influx helps to make
        Dublin a busy, buzzing international city. However, young and old,
        stranger and Dubliner rub shoulders quite happily. Religion and respect
        for parents has not yet gone out of fashion. And young graduates are
        not leaving nowmultinational corporations and European Union
        investment mean there are plenty of opportunities for them at home.
        Unemployment is at an all-time low. The Irish are actually beginning to
        come home.
      
    
  

  
  
    
      
        Hong Kong and
        Its People
        Exciting, mysterious, glamorousthese words have described
        Hong Kong for at least a century. With its vibrant atmosphere and
        night-and-day activity it is an intoxicating place. Hong Kong is
        crowdedit has one of the worlds greatest population densities. But
        it is also efficient, with one of the best transportation systems
        anywhere, and for such a crowded place, quietyou dont hear voices
        raised in anger, motorists sitting on their horns, or loud boomboxes.
        Shopping never endstheres always another inviting spot just down
        the street. Youll find Hong Kong easy to get around, the people
        helpful, English spoken everywhere, and food that lives up to its
        reputation.
        On 1 July, 1997 the British Crown Colony of Hong Kong
        reverted to Chinese sovereignty as a Special Administrative Region of
        the Peoples Republic of China. Today Hong Kong remains a capitalist
        enclave with its laws and rights intact, and China has promised that
        Hong Kong will continue in this fashion for at least 50 years.
        Beijings announced policy of maintaining Hong Kongs prosperity and
        stability makes sense. Hong Kong has long been Chinas handiest window
        on the West, and the city is unrivaled in its commercial know-how and
        managerial expertise. Around the time of the transition there was much
        speculation about how things would change. But in fact, once news of
        the handover vanished from the front pages, the people of Hong Kong
        returned to their usual topics of conversation: the economy and the
        price of housing.
        The impression of the visitor today will be that very little
        has changed. Establishments are no longer called Royal, Queen
        Elizabeth has vanished from the coinage, and the Union Jack has been
        replaced by the flag of China and the new Hong Kong flag with its
        bauhinia flower. But in fact, there have been changes, many of them due
        to economic progress, new construction, and other factors that
        influence cities all over the world.
        Others are more subtle. British social customs are still
        evident in the kind of polite service you get in hotels and in the long
        lines of people waiting for buses at rush hour. The British population
        has decreased; today there are as many American and Australian ex-pats
        as there are British.
        With a population of nearly eight million and a total area
        of just over 1,095 square km (423 square miles), housing is one of Hong
        Kongs perennial nightmares. To alleviate the problem, the government
        has become the citys major landlord with the construction of massive
        apartment blocks that, though they have every modern facility, average
        only 9 square m (100 square ft) in size. Whole cities have been created
        in the New Territories, although the unimaginative architecture of
        these towns has been criticized.
        Of Hong Kongs population, 98 percent are Chinese. The
        majority are Cantonese, born in Hong Kong, or from South China, but
        there are immigrants from all over China. The Chinese people have been
        described as hardworking and pragmatic, attitudes that have contributed
        to Hong Kongs success. There are many stories of refugees who arrived
        with nothing in their pockets, set up a small sidewalk stall, worked
        diligently until they had their own store, and then expanded it into a
        modest chain.
        Old customs are still followed: Fate and luck are taken very
        seriously, and astrologers and fortune-tellers do a steady business.
        Before a skyscraper can be built, a feng shui (see page 68)
        investigation must take place to ensure that the site and the building
        will promote health, harmony, and prosperity. Youll also notice that
        gambling is a passion, whether it be cards, mah-jong, the lottery, or
        the horses. Hong Kong has two major racetracks as well as an intensive
        off-track betting system, and on weekends the ferries to Macau are
        crowded with people on their way to the casinos.
        Sightseeing in Hong Kong starts at sea level with the
        enthralling water traffica mix of freighters, ferries, tugs, junks,
        and yachts. Views of the city and the harbor are panoramic. From
        Victoria Peak, Hong Kongs highest point, or from skyscrapers and
        hotels, they are especially exciting at night when the lights are
        on.
        The business and financial center and the signature soaring
        architecture are on Hong Kong Island. Across Victoria Harbor, connected
        by ferry and the MTR rail line, is the Kowloon peninsula with its
        hotels, nightlife, and almost non-stop shopping. Beyond, in the New
        Territories, are a mixture of high-rise suburban towns, ancient sites
        and walled villages, country parks, and farms with ducks and fish
        ponds. Hong Kongs other, less developed islands, Lantau, Lamma, and
        Cheung Chau, provide getaways. You can also take a ferry to Macau to
        find an entirely different kind of city, a unique blend of Chinese and
        Iberian culture.
        Its anyones guess what may happen in the future, but for
        now Hong Kong bristles with energy and ambition, and for the visitor,
        this beautiful city with its contrasts and variety is an exhilarating
        experience.
      
    
  

  
  
    
      
        What to Do
        Shopping
        Inflation has taken its toll in Hong Kong. While its no
        longer the bargain shopping destination it once was, there are still
        some good buys to be had. Since Hong Kong is a duty-free port and
        charges no sales tax, goods are cheaper here than in the country where
        they were made. On photographic equipment, electronic goods, and
        watches, you avoid the luxury tax payable in your home country.
        Specialty goods and souvenirs, often handmade, come from Hong Kong and
        elsewhere in China. Custom-made garments by skillful Hong Kong tailors
        are still much in demand and cost less than elsewhere for comparable
        garments. Note that alcohol and tobacco are both exceptions to Hong
        Kongs duty-free regime and are subject to tax.
        Youll find that prices are about the same in Hong Kong
        Central and Kowloon, and somewhat cheaper in Causeway Bay, which caters
        to local shopping. Large shops on the fashionable thoroughfares tend to
        be more expensive than smaller family shops tucked away in the side
        streets.
        Stores do not open until 10am or later, but shopping goes on
        into the evening, up to 9:30pm. Most shops are open seven days a week.
        Shops in Central are an exception; they generally close at 6pm and are
        not open on Sunday. The only holiday on which all commerce comes to a
        halt is the Chinese New Year in January or February.
        Buyer Beware. Be aware that name brands, including
        electronics, are sometimes fakes, glass may be sold as jade, and that
        antique you bought may have been made last night. Always ask for a
        receipt that records information about the item, and if you buy an
        antique, be sure to get a certificate of authentication. Needless to
        say, avoid peddlers who approach you on the street and offer to take
        you to wondrous bargains.
        The large department stores have fixed prices, but elsewhere
        you should ask whether there is a discount, especially if you buy
        several items in one shop. Compare prices before you buy any
        significant item. Always ask to see the manufacturers guarantee when
        purchasing watches, cameras, and audio-visual and electronic
        equipment.
        Note that when haggling, the merchant assumes you are
        prepared to pay cash. If, after concluding a deal, you try to pay with
        a credit card, he may then boost the price in order to cover the card
        charges.
        It is advisable to shop at outlets that are members of the
        Hong Kong Tourist Association (HKTA), identified by a red junk logo.
        Membership imposes an obligation to maintain standards of both quality
        and service, and provides dissatisfied customers with an officially
        recognized channel for redressing complaints; the number to call is
        Tel. 2508 1234. Pick up a copy of HKTAs The Official Dining,
        Entertainment & Shopping Directory in which all member stores are
        listed.
        Shipping. Many stores will pack and ship purchases. Ask if
        automatic free insurance is provided. If the goods are very valuable or
        fragile, it is a good idea to buy an all-risk insurance for the
        shipment. Packages sent to the US or to Europe generally take six to
        eight weeks by surface mail, and one week by airmail.
        Shopping Areas. Major shopping areas are Tsim Sha Tsui in
        Kowloon, especially along Nathan Road; Central on Hong Kong Island,
        particularly for upscale designer goods; Causeway Bay for slightly
        better prices; and the Hollywood Road area.
        Department Stores. Look for Lane Crawford Ltd., an upscale
        store with branches at Pacific Place, 70 Queens Road, and Harbour
        City; Wing On, one of the oldest in Hong Kong; Marks and Spencer; and
        the Japanese department stores, Mitsukoshi, Sobo, and Seibu.
        Malls. Hong Kong is full of giant malls. Harbour City, just
        west of the Star Ferry Terminal in Tsim Sha Tsui is one of the largest;
        Pacific Place, 88 Queensway, is Centrals biggest mall, with retail
        outlets and department stores; Times Square is a collection of retail
        outlets in Causeway Bay. In addition, most top-line hotels have upscale
        malls full of designer boutiques.
        Factory Outlets. These stores sell excess stock or factory
        overruns. Hong Kong is no longer a factory outlet center since much of
        its clothing manufacturing has moved elsewhere. There are factory
        showrooms in the Pedder Building, 12 Pedder Street, in Central.
        Markets. Markets are the places to use your bargaining
        skills. Hong Kongs most famous and colorful market is the Temple
        Street Night Market near the Jordan MTR stop. Every conceivable kind of
        goods is sold here: clothing, all kinds of electronics, CDs, souvenirs,
        crafts, and jewelry.
        Stanley Market is located on Hong Kongs southern coast,
        and is well-known for all kinds of clothing, including silk and
        cashmere. Bargain, and carefully examine any merchandise you buy
        here.
        The Jade Market, on Kansu Street in Yau Ma Tei, is known
        for both jade and freshwater pearls. This is not the place to make
        expensive purchases, but its great for inexpensive pendants, earrings,
        and gifts.
        What to Buy
        Antiques. Hollywood Road in the Mid-Levels above Central is
        the most famous antiques street in Hong Kong. Look for fine Chinese
        bronzes, embroidery, lacquerware and porcelain, tomb figures, and wood
        carvings, among other possibilities. The experts point out that it is
        not age alone that determines a Chinese antiques valuethe dynasties
        of the past had their creative ups and downs. For serious antiques, try
        Honeychurch Antiques at no. 29 for furniture and silver, Tai Sing
        Company at 122 for porcelain. For fun you can visit the Low Price Shop
        at no. 47 or the Cat Street crafts stores and flea market.
        Brocades and Silks. Fabrics from China are a bargain and
        well worth taking home. Chinese-product department stores stock silk
        fabrics, silk scarves, finely embroidered blouses, and traditional
        padded jackets. Chinese Arts and Crafts is at Pacific Place in Central,
        and in Star House in Tsim Sha Tsui; CRC Department Store is on Hennessy
        Road in Causeway Bay. For fabrics, also try Western Market, Morrison
        Street, in Central.
        Cameras. Photo buffs know that Hong Kong is the place to
        buy some of the worlds most advanced photographic equipment, and there
        are some real bargains around. However, be sure you compare prices and
        models before buying. Two reliable places to start looking in Lan Kwai
        Fong are Photo Scientific in the Eurasia Building and Hing Lee Camera
        Company, 25 Lyndhurst Terrace.
        Carpets and Rugs. Hong Kong is a mecca for Chinese
        hand-knotted wool carpets and silk rugs. Hong Kongs stores are usually
        able to arrange shipment. Caravan at 65 Hollywood Road and the shops in
        The Silk Road at Ocean Center in Tsim Sha Tsui are good places to start
        looking.
        China (Porcelain). In Hong Kong you can have a plate, or
        even a whole dinner service, hand-painted to your own design. Factories
        in Kowloon and the New Territories, producing traditional and modern
        china, are geared to entertain and instruct visiting tourists; prices
        are appealing. Two of the largest places to go are the Wah Tung China
        Company in the Grand Marine Industrial Building in Aberdeen; and the
        Overjoy Porcelain Factory in Block B of the Kwai Hing Industrial
        Building, Kwai Chung, in the New Territories. In antiques shops, look
        for highly valued porcelains from China. Note that because of the
        duty-free situation, good bargains may be found in European china,
        including Spode and Wedgwood.
        Electronics. The latest gadgets are sometimes available in
        Hong Kong before anywhere else. Before you begin shopping, pick up
        HKTAs Shopping Guide to Consumer Electronics.  Prices on electronics
        have risen in the past two years; check prices at home before you buy
        here. Nathan Road has many electronics shops. Also check out Star
        Computer City in the Star House near the Star Ferry terminal.
        Furniture. The choice ranges from traditional hand-carved
        Chinese rosewood furniture to well-made reproductions of modern Western
        styles. Rattan furniture is highly popular. Hollywood Road has several
        furniture shops. Queens Road East in Wan Chai is a furniture
        manufacturing and retail area.
        Jade.  Good for the health is just one of the many
        magical qualities that are attributed to these beautiful emerald-green
        or turquoise stones. Real jade is extremely expensive, and you may be
        offered counterfeit jade, which looks exactly like the genuine article.
        Some people say you can test the authenticity by touchreal jade
        feels smooth and cool. Alternatively, you can shine a lamp on the
        stonereal jade shows no reflected light. Better still, go shopping
        with an expert.
        Jewelry. Thanks to the duty-free situation, prices in Hong
        Kong are lower than they are in some other places. You can buy
        gemstones loose or set, or have them made up to your own design.
        Popular purchases include diamonds and freshwater pearls. If you do
        plan to buy jewelry, be sure to consult the Shopping Guide to
        Jewellery published by the Hong Kong Tourist Authority to find a
        reputable dealer.
        Kitchen Equipment. Woks and any other gadgets essential for
        Chinese cookery make good purchases. Department stores sell all sorts
        of intriguing kitchen equipment.
        Leather Goods. Leather is not a great bargain in Hong Kong.
        Locally made items do not live up to their European models. However,
        the leather garment industry is growing, and there is a wide range of
        locally produced leather accessories, all at extremely attractive
        prices. For European imports, you will pay top dollar.
        Musical, Audio, and Video Equipment. Hong Kong has a vast
        range of the most high-tech audio-visual, sound, and screen equipment.
        Before purchasing, visitors should make sure of compatibility with
        systems in their own countries. Be sure to look around and compare
        before buying. Whatever you buy, you may be able to work out a
        discount.
        Ready-to-wear Clothes. Hong Kongs shops carry almost every
        recognizable European and many American labels, from top-end designers
        to the moderately priced or trendy. Nathan Road, Central, and the hotel
        malls are places to look. There are still a great many factory outlet
        stores with reasonable prices. Youll also find bargain clothes for
        sale at the markets and on push-carts.
        Tailoring. Tailor-made clothes are not as popular in Hong
        Kong as they were in the past, but hundreds of shops still remain.
        Local tailors are experts when it comes to producing custom-tailored
        garments for both men and women, and are also adept at copying
        patterns. The result can be a quality suit at a fair pricebut
        made-to-measure clothing is not cheap. In choosing a tailor, look for
        HKTA membership. Many tailors have Web sites or are listed on Web
        sites.
        Tea. Shops all over town will sell you gift tins of exotic
        blends. If you want to learn something about tea, go to the Tea Shop at
        149 Hollywood Road, or the Moon Garden Tea House at 5 Hoi Ping Road,
        Causeway Bay. The owners will brew up a pot so you can taste before
        making a choice.
        Watches. The saying Time is money is quite literally true
        in Hong Kong: more is spent on watches and clocks here than on cameras
        and optical goods. An enormous variety of makes and models are on sale.
        Be sure to get the manufacturers guarantee stamped or signed if you
        buy a watch.
        Entertainment
        Day and night, the action goes on in this vibrant city. To
        help you choose a nightlife scene, pick up a copy of Hong Kong Tourist
        Authoritys dining and entertainment guide for listings, or just simply
        wander through the maze of neon signs and take your pick. Hong Kong
        Diary published weekly by HKTA tells whats happening in the arts. Hong
        Kong Life is published by the Hong Kong Standard on Sunday, and the
        South China Morning Post has an entertainment section on Friday.
        Culture buffs are well catered to, and there is always a
        varied program of events, ranging from world-class concerts to local
        amateur dramatic productions.
        A highlight of the arts calendar is the annual Hong Kong
        Arts Festival, a three-week dose of international culture in February,
        with concerts, recitals, plays, jazz, Chinese opera, and innovative
        productions put on by leading talent from both East and West. Tickets
        for the shows must be reserved well in advance. The Festival of Asian
        Arts takes place every other October, bringing to Hong Kong for two
        weeks orchestras, dance groups, opera, and drama companies from all
        over Asia.
        There are more than 30 cinemas in Hong Kong, and the latest
        Western releases are shown in some of the larger ones. English-language
        films have Chinese subtitles. Films with Mandarin dialogue also have
        Chinese subtitles, for the benefit of Cantonese speakers, and sometimes
        subtitles in English.
        The Hong Kong International Film Festival takes place in
        April. More than 200 films from all over the world are shown at this
        two-week event. Ask at City Hall center about advance reservations.
        The Performing Arts
        Performance Venues. The theaters in the Hong Kong Cultural
        Center in Tsim Sha Tsui are the main venues for concerts and opera.
        Other performance centers are the City Hall cultural complex, with
        exhibition halls and theaters that present concerts, plays, and films;
        the Hong Kong Academy for the Performing Arts with two major theaters
        for dance, drama, and concert performances; and the Hong Kong Arts
        Centre in Wan Chai, where both local and visiting groups perform. Other
        centers for concerts, plays, and entertainment are Sha Tin Town Hall
        and Tsuen Wan Town Hall in the New Territories. Larger arenas,
        including the Queen Elizabeth Stadium, the Hong Kong Coliseum, and the
        Ko Shan Theater in Kowloon play host to various concerts, pop concerts,
        sporting events, and variety shows.
        Classical Music. The Hong Kong Chinese Orchestra performs
        new and traditional works; a wide assortment of traditional and Chinese
        instruments are featured. The Hong Kong Philharmonic Orchestra was
        founded in 1975. Under its conductor, David Atherton, it offers Western
        classical works and new works by Chinese composers in a
        September-to-June season.
        Chinese Opera. Cantonese opera is alive and well in Hong
        Kong, and the two other forms, Beijing and Kun, are sometimes
        presented. To most foreigners, this unique art form is likely to be
        inscrutable at first exposure, but everyone can appreciate the
        spectacle and the elaborate, glittering costumes. Although the music
        may seem strange to the unaccustomed ear, it certainly wont put you to
        sleep; cymbals and drums guarantee your alertness.
        Dance. Hong Kongs three professional dance companiesthe
        Hong Kong Ballet Company, the Hong Kong Dance Company, and the newer
        City Contemporary Dance Companyperform regularly, often at the Hong
        Kong Academy for the Performing Arts.
        Theater. The two leading local troupes, the Chung Ying
        Theatre Company and the Hong Kong Repertory Theatre, perform in
        Cantonese; there are English-language performances at the Fringe Club
        theaters, 2 Lower Albert Road, in Central.
        Puppet Shows. The classic Chinese puppet is the shadow
        puppet, manipulated behind a screen by three rods, but hand puppet and
        marionette shows are also on offer, often for free at public parks and
        playgrounds.
        Nightlife
        Hong Kong by night can suit any tasteriotous, sedate,
        raw, or cultured. Note that sometimes there is a cover charge of HK$50
        to HK$200 at clubs, which may or may not include a couple of
        drinks.
        There are nightclubs in the principal hotels, with bands,
        dancing, and floor shows. Many restaurants and bars have live
        music.
        Jazz fans will find live jazz presented by international
        artists at the Jazz Club and Bar, 2/F, 34-36 DAgular, Central; and at
        the Blue Note in the Kowloon Shangri-La Hotel in Tsim Sha Tsui. The
        Frin ge Club, 21 Lower Albert Road, Central, is Hong Kongs best-known
        alternate entertainment venue, with jazz, rock, and other live music,
        in addition to a gallery for visual arts.
        Bars with views and live music include Sky Lounge in the
        Sheraton Hotel and Towers, Tsim Sha Tsui; and Cyrano in the Island
        Shangri-La in Pacific Place. Pubs are numerous. In Tsim Sha Tsui, Ned
        Kellys Last Stand on Ashley Road is an Aussie institution; Delaneys,
        71-77 Peking Road, is one of Hong Kongs enduring Irish pubs.
        The clubs and bars of Wan Chai, long the center of seedy
        nightlife, have become almost respectable. Joe Bananas, 23 Luard Road,
        is a Wan Chai mainstay for all-night partying. Ricks Cafe, 78-82 Jaffe
        Road, is a long-time disco thats still popular. A lot of the raunchy
        action has moved across the harbor to Tsim Sha Tsui East; this is also
        where youll find pricey hostess clubs, popular with Japanese tourists,
        but definitely not for those on a budget.
        Todays trendy spot is Soho (SOuth of HOllywood) around
        Hollywood Road, Elgin, and Stauton streets. Soho, along with the Lan
        Kwai Fong area, is popular with chuppies (Hong Kong yuppies) and has a
        lively bar scene. Causeway Bay also has a variety of bars and clubs.
        TOTTs, in the Excelsior Hotel, is a restaurant with live music and
        dancing and a harbor view.
        Japanese karaoke bars have now become extremely popular
        with the locals. There are a number of these on Chatham Road South and
        around Cameron Street in Tsim Sha Tsui.
        Nightlife tours are offered by a number of companies. The
        most typical of these are harbor cruises, usually including dinner and
        dancing on board an air-conditioned floating nightclub. There are
        evening bus tours that include visits to a restaurant and night spots;
        some tours combine a Chinese banquet with a visit to an open-air market
        and the panorama from Victoria Peak.
        Sports
        Participant Sports
        Beaches. In subtropical Hong Kong you can swim from April
        to early November. There are more than 40 beaches in Hong Kong that are
        free to the public. Most have lifeguards on duty from April to October,
        changing rooms, toilets, and snack stands. On Hong Kong Island, Repulse
        Bay is the most popular; others are Shek O on the east coast and
        Stanley and Deep Water Bay on the south coast. They are very crowded,
        especially on summer weekends. On the outlying islands, Cheung Chau and
        Cheung Sha are on Lantau, and Hung Shing Ye and Lo So Shing on Lamma;
        inquire about water pollution levels.
        Golf. The Hong Kong Golf Club (Tel. 2812 7070) welcomes
        visitors to its three 18-hole courses at Fanling in the New
        Territories, or the 9-hole course at Deep Water Bay. The Discovery Bay
        Golf Club on Lantau island (Tel. 2987 7273) has an 18-hole Robert Trent
        Jones Jr. course, open to visitors Monday, Tuesday, and Friday. Many
        Hong Kong residents and visitors take the express train to Guangzhou to
        play at the Guangzhou Luhu Golf and Country Club (Tel. 2317 1933 in
        Hong Kong or 020-8350 7777). The 72-par course was designed by Dave
        Thomas.
        Hiking. In the New Territories the famous MacLehose Trail
        stretches 97 km (60 miles) from Sai Kung Peninsula to Tuen Mun. The
        Lantau Trail is a 69-km (43-mile) circular trail on Lantau Island that
        begins and ends at Silvermine Bay. Both trails are divided into smaller
        segments of varying difficulty. Maps of hiking trails are available at
        the Government Publications Center, Low Block, Government Offices, 66
        Queensway in Central. HKTA also has trail maps and sponsors the Guided
        Nature Walks, led by rangers, that include hikes in all the different
        regions of Hong Kong.
        Jogging. Victoria Park has a jogging track in Causeway
        Bay.
        Sailing. Because of the heavy harbor traffic, only sailors
        licensed by the Hong Kong authorities can run pleasure boats in local
        waters. Contact the Hong Kong Yacht Club at Tel. 2832 2817 for
        information.
        Taijiquan (Tai Chi). HKTA offers lessons in these exercises
        that improve concentration and balance at Garden Plaza, Hong Kong Park,
        Admiralty (Tel. 2058 1234).
        Tennis. There are 13 public courts at Victoria Park Tennis
        Centre (Tel. 2570 6168), near Tin Hau Station.
        Spectator Sports
        Horseracing. All levels of society share a feverish
        interest in the Sport of Kings. The racing schedule is September to
        June, and Hong Kong maintains two tracksthe older Happy Valley
        course on Hong Kong Island and the striking Sha Tin track in the New
        Territories. The Hong Kong Tourist Association runs a Come Horseracing
        Tour, which includes entry to the Hong Kong Jockey Club visitors box
        and members enclosure, and a buffet-style meal.
        Cricket. The Hong Kong International Cricket Series, held
        in late September, brings teams from all over the world.
        Rugby. The Rugby Sevens sees teams come together from all
        over the world for 15 matches in March or early April.
        Childrens Hong Kong
        Hong Kong has many attractions that appeal to children of
        all ages. Hong Kongs many beaches are especially fun for children.
        Children love riding on Hong Kongs antique trams. A ride on the Peak
        Tram is sure to provide a thrill, and in the Peak Tower theyll enjoy
        the Peak Explorer ride and Ripleys Believe it or Not!
        Ocean Park (see page 32) is popular with children of all
        ages. Theres a special Kids World that those under 12 can enter free
        when accompanied by a paying adult. The more daring can try out the
        terrifying roller-coaster rides.
        Hong Kongs state-of-the-art interactive museums will
        interest children of all ages. The Science Museum in Tsim Sha Tsui East
        allows children to get their hands on over half of its 500 exhibits,
        while the nearby Space Museum has regular screenings on an enormous
        Omnimax screen in its Space Theater, making the night sky come
        vibrantly alive.
        For children who love boats, riding the Star Ferry or ferry
        trips to outlying islands will be exciting, and the Dolphin Watch trip
        (see page 113) is certain to appeal. If you plan to visit during May,
        the carnival atmosphere of the Cheung Chau Bun Festival, with its high
        bamboo-and-paper towers covered in sticky buns, will fascinate the
        young ones.
      
    
  

  
  
    
      
        Where to Go
        T he crowded Kowloon peninsula and the booming New
        Territories on the mainland call for some serious sightseeing; but we
        begin across Victoria Harbor on Hong Kong Island, where the city was
        first founded and which remains the center of government, business, and
        commerce.
        Hong Kong Central
        No matter how many tunnels and transit systems speed
        cross-harbor traffic, nothing matches the ride on the Star Ferry from
        Kowloon to the Central District across Victoria Harbor. As the
        double-decker boats get ready to leave the pier, bells ring, the
        gangplank is raised, deckhands in blue sailor suits man the hawsers,
        and a couple of hundred commuters begin a seven-minute sightseeing
        tour. The big green-and-white boat weaves its way through an
        ever-changing obstacle course of both large and small craft, and the
        soaring skyline of Hong Kong Island draws nearer.
        As you get off, the 52-story Jardine House with
        porthole-shaped windows catches the eye. There are restaurants and a
        Starbucks in the basement, and you can access the raised pedestrian
        crosswalk from the escalators on the ground floor. Next to the Jardine
        building is Exchange Square, a complex with a large shopping mall; just
        behind it is the General Post Office with a philatelic center on the
        ground floor.
        Farther west is the ferry terminal for the outlying islands.
        On Connaught Road Central, youll find one of Hong Kongs curiosities,
        the 244-m- (800-ft-) long Mid-Levels outdoor escalator. It ferries
        commuters from the Mid-Levels apartment complexes downhill from 6 to
        10am, and uphill from 10am to midnight. Nearby is Central Market, the
        wholesale food market of Hong Kong, and the Hang Seng building (private
        offices).
        Just east of the Star Ferry terminal, youll come to City
        Hall. No longer a center of government, it now functions as a cultural
        center. Go through the underground walkway to Statue Square; on the
        east side of the square is the Legislative Council Building, one of the
        few colonial buildings left in Hong Kong. So great is the pressure on
        the available land that most of Hong Kongs colonial architectural
        heritage has been demolished and replaced by new skyscrapers. Despite
        protests by preservationists, there was little alternative.
        Nearby is Chater Garden and a number of notable
        architectural landmarks. Most famous is the striking 74-story I.M. Pei
        Bank of China Tower, not beloved by the people of Hong Kongits
        triangular prisms and sharp angles violate the principles of feng shui
        (see box, page 68) and its radio masts stick up like an insects
        antennae. The rival Hong Kong and Shanghai Bank is by architect Norman
        Foster; built on a coathanger frame, its floors hang rather than
        ascend. From inside the vast atrium you can view the whole structure as
        well as the mechanical workings of the building. Two bronze lions,
        carrying out feng shui principles, guard its doors.
        You can catch one of Hong Kongs historic trams along Des
        Voeux Road and ride from Central to Causeway Bay (see box, page 66). In
        1904, the narrow, double-decker trams ran along the waterfront, but
        land reclamation has placed them far inland.
        From the Bank of China Tower, make a short detour up Garden
        Road and turn into Battery Path to reach the landmark St. Johns
        Cathedral. Built 18471849, this usually deserted Anglican foundation
        is Hong Kongs oldest church. During World War II, the church was
        turned into a club for Japanese officers; it was restored after the
        war. Note the stained glass windows in the Quiet Chapel, designed by
        Joseph Edward Nuttgens in the late 1950s. Behind the church is the 1917
        French Mission Building, now used as the Court of Final Appeal.
        Across from the I.M. Pei tower a winding path leads up to
        Hong Kong Park. The parks 10.5 hectares (25 acres) of landscaped
        gardens and lakes contains a large greenhouse that holds many species
        of plants, and an aviary of exotic birds. In the park is the Flagstaff
        House Museum of Tea Ware (see page 54). Its in Hong Kongs oldest
        colonial building, with exhibits describing the history of tea from the
        Warring States period (475221 b.c. ) to the present.
        If you leave the park and walk up Cotton Tree Drive, you
        will find the Peak Tram terminal.
        To the Summit
        For more than a century, the most exhilarating way up
        Victoria Peak has been by funicular. The Peak Tram starts its scenic
        climb just across the street and around the corner from the American
        Consulate in Garden Road and makes its way, sometimes at a startlingly
        steep incline, to the summit at 398 m (1,305 ft). The right-of-way
        travels past fancy apartment blocks, bamboo stands, and jungle flowers.
        Passengers crane their necks for dizzying glimpses of the harbor. The
        Peak is still the most fashionable place to live in Hong Kong, but real
        estate prices here are astronomical; rents run around HK$50,000 a
        month.
        The Peak Tram, originally steam-powered, was built to speed
        the wealthy taipans to their mountainside retreats. Before the tram was
        built, sedan chairs and rickshaws were the only way to get here. Since
        the trams inauguration in 1888 it has stopped only for typhoons and
        World War II.
        The modern 120-passenger cars make the journey in around
        eight minutes. However, on sunny Saturdays and Sundays you may have to
        brave a crowd lining up at the lower terminal. During the spring and
        autumn festivals, when people traditionally seek out the hilltops, the
        throngs are so large you would be better advised to try another
        time.
        At the upper terminus there is a four-level shopping
        center, the Peak Galleria, and the Peak Tower, which resembles an
        airport control tower and has shops, entertainment, and
        restaurants.
        You can walk around the peak for impressive views of Hong
        Kong, the coastline, and the islands in 45 minutes on Lugard and
        Harlech roads. The view is especially effective at night. There are
        also souvenir stands, benches for a rest, and perhaps Hong Kongs last
        surviving rickshawshowever these are not for rides, but are a
        tourist photo opportunity. If youre up to a climb, take the Mount
        Austin road to the Victoria Peak Gardens. These gardens used to belong
        to the governors mountain lodge, but the building was demolished by
        the Japanese during the occupation of Hong Kong.
        From the lower terminal of the Peak Tram its only a short
        walk to the former governors residence, Government House, now a
        museum. Across from the mansion, the Zoological and Botanical Gardens
        (gardens open daily 6am10pm; zoo 6am7pm; admission free) provide a
        welcome oasis amid the big-city pressures. In the very early morning
        the park is taken over by people doing tai-chi exercises. Both young
        and old go through ballet-like movements in slow motion to discipline
        the mind and body. The parks zoo has a collection of weird and
        wonderful chattering jungle birds.
        More Hong Kong Island Sights
        Western District
        The Western District is one of Hong Kongs oldest
        neighborhoods, and its narrow streets hold a collection of fascinating
        traditional shops and enterprises. Opposite the Macau Ferry Terminal
        youll find the Western Market (open 10am7pm). It is more interesting
        for its architecture than for its shopping; its situated in a
        four-story Edwardian building built in 1906. For an interesting glimpse
        of small and family-owned shops, walk along Bonham Strand East and
        West, Man Wa Lane, and Cleverly Street. Youll find herb and medicine
        shops, incense shops, chop makers shops (makers of Chinese seals), and
        more.
        Hong Kong Universitys campus is spread along Bonham Road.
        When it opened in 1912, the university had a total of 72 students. At
        the top of a sloping driveway, the stately Edwardian structure that was
        the original university building presides over the institutions newer
        buildings. The Universitys Fung Ping Shan Museum, 94 Bonham Road (open
        MondaySaturday 9:30am6pm, admission free) holds a significant
        collection of antiquities: bronzes, dating from 3000 b.c. , and
        ceramics, including Han Dynasty tomb pottery. It also has the worlds
        largest collection of Nestorian crosses from the Yuan Dynasty
        period.
        Around Hollywood Road
        Take the Mid-Levels Escalator to Hollywood road, known for
        its antiques and curio shopping. Here the windows and open doors of the
        shops reveal an alluring selection of Asian furniture, carpets,
        carvings, tomb figures, porcelain, and bronze.
        Walk west along Hollywood Road until you come to Man Mo
        Temple, the islands oldest house of worship (though the date of its
        founding is subject to dispute). Visitors entering the temple are
        confronted by a dense pall of smoke from all the burning joss sticks
        and the incense coils hanging from the ceiling (these will burn for as
        long as a month). The gold-plated sedan chairs on the left-hand side of
        the temple were once used for transporting the statues of the temples
        gods in religious processions. The statues in the main shrine represent
        Man, the god of literature, and Mo, the god of war, a curious
        juxtaposition. The temple is always crowded with worshipers.
        Just past the temple is the aptly named Ladder Street. Go
        down one flight of steps to Lascar Row, popularly known as Cat Street,
        for more antiques and curio shops. Walk up the steps to reach Caine
        Lane, where youll find the Museum of Medical Sciences (open
        TuesdaySaturday 10am5pm; admission by donation). The interesting
        Edwardian building was formerly the Pathological Institute, founded to
        combat the 19th centurys 30-year-long outbreak of bubonic plague. The
        old laboratory is still intact, and there are exhibits on Chinese
        pharmacology and the history of medicine in Hong Kong.
        Wan Chai
        Just to the east of the financial district, Wan Chai was
        once an area of sleazy clubs and topless bars; this was the setting for
        The World of Suzy Wong. Servicemen relaxing from the rigors of the
        Vietnam War poured millions of dollars into the Wan Chai boom of the
        1960s. There are still bars and clubs here, but the area has become
        almost mainstream, and office towers are replacing many of the sinful
        old premises.
        The Wan Chai waterfront is dominated by the Hong Kong
        Convention and Exhibition Centre, the largest in Asia, which includes
        hotels, theaters, and exhibition halls. The convention center, an
        extension on reclaimed land, affords stunning views of the Wan Chai
        waterfront. Adjacent, just west of the convention center, is another
        modern highlight, the Academy for the Performing Arts on Gloucester
        Road.
        On Wan Chais Bowen Road, Maidens Rock, also called
        Lovers Rock, is the gathering place for the annual Maidens festival.
        Although it is not a tourist attraction, the rock is steeped in
        tradition. Every August young women convene to light joss sticks and
        some even climb the nine-meter (30-ft) rock to pray for good
        husbands.
        Causeway Bay
        About 2 km (a mile) east of Wan Chai, Causeway Bay is
        second only to Tsim Sha Tsui as Hong Kongs place to shop. A prosperous
        tourist district, it is full of shopping centers and department stores,
        along with a number of good restaurants. The busy night-and-day crowds
        make this area vibrant and lively.
        On the nautical side is the Causeway Bay typhoon shelter,
        where expensive yachts are anchored almost gunwale to gunwale, and the
        Hong Kong Yacht Club has its headquarters. Across Gloucester Road,
        opposite the World Trade Centre, is the Noonday Gun, which under
        British rule was sounded on the stroke of midday. Silent for a time,
        the tradition has been revived and is a tourist attraction. Its not
        clear how the custom started. One story has it that traders Jardine,
        Matheson & Co fired a private salute for a visiting tycoon, an act
        that incensed the colonial authorities, who felt that they had the sole
        right to issue such a 21-gun welcome. As a result, the merchants were
        forced to limit their salvoes to one a dayand from then on, they
        signaled the noon hour daily for all to hear. The gun was made famous
        by Noel Cowards satirical song, Mad Dogs and Englishmen. 
        Farther east is Hong Kongs largest park, Victoria Park,
        with sports grounds and other facilities. On the eastern side of
        Victoria Park on Causeway Road is Tin Hau Temple, dedicated to Tin Hau,
        the Taoist Queen of Heaven and patroness of seafarers. Originally the
        temple was on the shore but reclamation projects have now left it high
        and dry. On the 23rd day of the Third Moon, the birthday of the goddess
        is celebrated here and in all Hong Kong fishing communities.
        Inland from the bay is Happy Valley. At one time it was a
        very miserable valley, a swampland conducive only to breeding malarial
        mosquitoes. It is home to Hong Kongs first racetrack. Hong Kongs
        gamblers are so eager to play the horses that, despite the opening of a
        bigger and better racetrack at Sha Tin, the Happy Valley Racecourse is
        thriving.
        Up Tai Hang Road behind Causeway Bay is Aw Boon Haw (Tiger
        Balm) Gardens (open daily 9:30am4pm), founded in 1935 by the late Aw
        Boon Haw, who became a millionaire by producing the medicinal Tiger
        Balm. (It does not, in fact, contain any ingredients from tigers, but
        does promise to cure a wide range of problems such as colds, headaches,
        rheumatism, gout, toothache, and scorpion bites. ) With its garish
        pagodas, artificial caves, and brightly painted statues of well-known
        Taoist and Buddhist legends, the garden is an obvious photo
        opportunity.
        around the Coast
        Aberdeen, the islands oldest settlement, once a pirate
        lair, is home to the floating population the boat people who spend
        their entire lives on the junks in the harbor, some proudly claiming
        never to have set foot on land (except for funerals, which dont
        count). The junks are a picturesque sight: children frolicking on the
        poop deck, women preparing food or playing mah-jong, elderly folk
        watching the sunset, dogs and cats underfoot, songbirds in bamboo cages
        overheadand all afloat.
        The boats may appear deceptively primitive, but many of
        them have their own electric generators and all the modern
        conveniences. There are fewer boats now than in the past; many boat
        people, especially the younger generation, have moved to housing
        projects. You can take a tour of the port in one of the small sampans,
        propelled by hand by women drivers. A half-hour tour costs HK$50; pay
        at the end, or the driver may cut your trip short.
        Aberdeens theatrical floating restaurants have been a
        tourist attraction for many years. The food may not live up to
        expectations, but the fantasy environment makes up for it. If you can
        get up early enough, you can attend the pre-dawn auction held at the
        vast local wholesale fish market; otherwise, have a look at the street
        market that goes on later in the day.
        The peninsula opposite the east coast of Ap Lei Chau island
        contains Ocean Park (open daily 10am6pm; admission HK$150 adults,
        HK$75 children), which has become one of Hong Kongs biggest
        attractions. It is divided into three areas: a highland, a lowland, and
        the Middle Kingdom. Linking the lowland and highland sections of the
        park, a cable-car system offers spectacular views across to the islands
        of the South China Sea.
        The Oceanarium is said to be the largest in the world, and
        the Ocean Theatre features displays by dolphins, killer whales, seals,
        and pelicans. An enormous roller-coaster rising way above the sea,
        space wheels, and high-diving shows guarantee a day of excitement. The
        Middle Kingdom is a recreated living history of Chinas past,
        presented through a number of full-size replicas of shrines, temples,
        pagodas, palaces, and street scenes. There are also demonstrations of
        traditional Chinese crafts, including silk-weaving, pottery, and p
        apermaking. Water World, formerly in the complex, has closed for
        redevelopment.
        Continuing around the coast in a counter-clockwise
        direction, Deep Water Bay offers a good beach and harbors. The next
        inlet is Repulse Bay, a roomy, sandy crescent, with green hills. Its
        so attractive and so easy to reach that its packed with sunbathers all
        summer long.
        Stanley was once one of the main fishing villages on Hong
        Kong Island. The well-known Stanley Market (see page 55) is a major
        source for bargain clothing and other merchandise. Stanley is also a
        favorite place of residence for ex-pats. The waterfronts at Repulse Bay
        and Stanley are lined with good cafs and restaurants.
        Kowloon
        Though much smaller than Hong Kong Island, Kowloon has
        almost twice the population. In many areas, the density reaches the
        equivalent of 150,000 inhabitants per square km (a quarter square
        mile).
        Most of Kowloons attractions for visitors are centered
        near the tip of the peninsula in the district known as Tsim Sha Tsui.
        Adjacent to the Star Ferry terminal is Ocean Terminal, where
        international cruise ships dock, and the gigantic Harbour City, a
        complex of malls, hotels, and restaurants.
        If you walk east on the Star Ferry terminal concourse, you
        will find yourself on the wonderful Promenade, which begins at the
        clock tower, all that remains of the once grand Kowloon-Canton Railway
        Terminus. The waterfront here offers unparalled views of the harbor and
        Hong Kong Island. If you continue to the end of the promenade, you will
        be in Tsim Sha Tsui East, a busy commercial district built on more than
        60 hectares (150 acres) of reclaimed land.
        Flanked by the clock tower is the imposing Hong Kong
        Cultural Centre. Hong Kongs major venue for the performing arts, the
        building has been criticized for its fortress-like architecture and
        windowless faade. The interior is a comfortable amalgam of Chinese and
        Western design, with an impressive main lobby. The center contains a
        concert hall with acclaimed acoustics, theaters, a library, an
        exhibition gallery, shops, restaurants, and bars.
        Next door is the Hong Kong Space Museum and Theatre (open
        Monday, WednesdayFriday 19pm; Saturday, Sunday 10am9pm; closed
        Tuesday; admission HK$10 adults, HK$5 children; separate admission to
        theater). Its futuristic dome design is striking; inside are
        interactive exhibits, including one in which you can experience
        weightlessness. The theater presents sky shows and IMAX films. The
        Hong Kong Museum of Art (see page 54) stands behind the Space Museum
        next to the cultural center. It contains the Xubaizhi collection of
        painting and calligraphy; galleries devoted to antiquities and
        ceramics; and a gallery of modern Chinese art. Particularly interesting
        is the collection of paintings and photographs of old Hong Kong. The
        museum mounts special exhibitions and has an excellent gift shop.
        A few blocks up Chatham Road South are two more major
        museums. The Science Museum (see page 55) is a state-of-the-art
        interactive museum that will teach you how everything and anything
        works from ancient sailing ships to the latest technology. The Museum
        of History (open TuesdaySaturday 10am6pm, Sunday 16pm; closed
        Monday; admission HK$10 adult, HK$5 child) opened its new permanent
        collection at the end of August 2001. The fascinating collection of
        artifacts pertaining showcases 6,000 years of Hong Kongs history and
        Chinese culture.
        Just across Salisbury Road from the cultural center is the
        historic Peninsula Hotel, now expanded and modernized by a 32-story
        tower. Its restored lobby is Hong Kongs most elegant gathering place;
        afternoon tea here is a visitors ritual.
        Alongside the hotel runs busy Nathan Road, Hong Kongs
        fabled shopping street, lined with shops, hotels, and restaurants.
        Kowloons main street was created by Sir Matthew Nathan when he was
        governor of Hong Kong at the turn of the 19th century. At the time it
        was built, many thought it absurd to have a tree-lined boulevard
        running through what was practically a wilderness. Now the former
        Nathans Folly is known as the Golden Mile. 
        A few blocks up Nathan Road is Kowloon Park (open daily
        6ammidnight), elegantly laid out with fountains, promenades, and
        ornamental gardens; be sure to go up the steps to see the Sculpture
        Walk.
        Farther up Nathan Street you will reach Yau Ma Tei, one of
        the older parts of Kowloon. Turn off Nathan and walk down Kansu Street
        to find the Jade Market (open 10am3pm; see page 80), with more than
        100 stalls spread out in a large tent, just before you reach the
        overpass.
        Hong Kongs liveliest market scene is the Temple Street
        Night Market (see page 55), near Jordan Road. Everything is sold here,
        from clothing to souvenirs to electronic goods, and the market is known
        for its street-side food stalls, where you can dine inexpensively on
        seafood. The market runs all the way up to Tin Hau Temple, where you
        will find fortune tellers tables (some speak English) and possibly
        street performers singing Chinese opera or pop songs. The temple is one
        of the many dedicated to Tin Hau, goddess of seafarers; this one also
        houses an altar to Shing Wong, the citys god. In the daytime the
        temple (open 8am6pm) attracts worshipers, and its park attracts
        strollers and mah-jong players.
        Nathan Road goes all the way up to Boundary Street, which
        marks the boundary between Kowloon and the New Territories. Near
        Boundary Street, off Prince Edward Street West, is the Yuen Po Street
        Bird Garden (open 8am7pm). Birds are favorite pets in Hong Kong,
        valued for their singing rather than their plumage, and here youll
        find all kinds of birds for sale as well as elaborate teak and bamboo
        cages.
        Off the beaten path in Sham Shui Po, west of the junction
        of Nathan Road and Boundary Street, is the Lei Cheng Uk Han Tomb and
        Museum on Tonkin Road (open MondayWednesday and FridaySaturday
        10am6pm, Sunday 16pm; closed Thursday). This ancient burial vault is
        believed to date back to the Han Dynasty (a.d. 25220). The
        barrel-vaulted chambers were discovered while excavating for a nearby
        housing project.
        New Territories
        Hong Kongs New Territories begin at Boundary Street.
        Surprises spring up on all sides: new industrial complexes alongside
        sleepy farming villages, skyscraper towns blooming in the middle of
        nowhere, Hakka women in their traditional flat straw hats with hanging
        black curtains, water buffalo, and flashes of azalea everywhere.
        The New Territories can be explored by taking the
        KowloonCanton Railway (KCR), which makes 10 stops between the station
        in Kowloon and Sheung Shui, the last stop before entering China. Ask
        the tourist authority about its interesting Heritage Tour from Kowloon
        and other countryside tours (see page 113).
        The main highway makes a circuit of the New Territories,
        beginning with the new town of Tsuen Wan, situated in an area of heavy
        industry just west of Kowloon. North of the town, a commanding view
        over all the New Territories to the north can be seen from Tai Mo Shan,
        Hong Kongs highest peak at 957 m (3,140 ft). The highway continues
        parallel to the coast. One-third of all Hong Kongs beaches are to be
        found in a single 14-km (9-mile) stretch of this regions shoreline.
        Place names are often based on the distance to the nearest mile-post,
        as measured from the tip of the Kowloon peninsula. Thus you will find
        191/2-mile Beach at Castle Peak Bay.
        The main road continues clockwise around the New
        Territories. As you approach the border, you can glimpse the
        skyscrapers of Shenzhen. The lookout point at Lok Ma Chau was once
        known as Hong Kongs window on Chinain the years of Chinas
        isolation from the West, tourists would come to the lookout point here
        and rent binoculars in order to get a glimpse of the great mystery
        beyond.
        Set amid Tseun Wans residential towers is the 18th-century
        walled village of Sam Tung Uk, now preserved as a museum, and a short
        walk from the MTR station. Not far away, at milepost 21 near the large
        new town of Tuen Mun, is a Taoist retreat known as Ching Chung Koon.
        This Temple of Green Pines is a spacious complex containing temples
        and pavilions, statues, and gardens. It is known for its collection of
        bonsai and houses a jade seal more than 1,000 years old. Among the
        ponds is one inhabited by turtles: Visitors toss in coins in the hope
        of bouncing one off a turtles head, a sure way of achieving good
        fortune.
        An even more interesting image out of Chinese history is
        the walled village of Kat Hing Wai, in the village of Kam Tin just
        outside the market town of Yuen Long. This is the most easily
        accessible of the New Territories walled villages. It is built in a
        square, and the only way in is through the gate in the brick defensive
        wall. Kat Hing Wai was built four or five centuries ago by the Hakka
        Tang clan, one of the Five Great Clans that migrated here from North
        China (see page 11). Many of the old houses in the village have been
        replaced by modern structures.
        The Tang clans earliest walled village was Lo Wai, which
        also has its defensive wall intact and is entered by a narrow gate.
        Adjacent to the village is the restored Tang Chung Ling Ancestral Hall.
        Few traditional ancestral halls remain in China since the
        anti-historical destruction during the Cultural Revolution, so these
        New Territories ancestral halls are rare survivors. Another such hall,
        belonging to the Liu Clan, is Liu Man Shek Tong in the village of
        Sheung Shui.
        One of the most interesting sites in the New Territories is
        Tai Fu Tai, another rare survivor, this one a mansion that belonged to
        a Confucian high official. The house was built in 1865 by a member of
        the Man clan who achieved the rank of tai fu (mandarin) by doing well
        in the Imperial Examinations. The preservation of this wonderful home
        is ongoing; a projected restoration of the original garden is still in
        progress. The traditional Qing Dynasty style of the mansion is
        enlivened by a few Western touches: a Baroque-style ceiling and
        stained glass above the doorways, showing the builders up-to-date
        attitude at the time of construction.
        The highway and the railway stay close together from
        Fanling, site of the best golf courses in the area. Tai Po, just south
        of Fanling, is known for its market, Tai Po Market, which buzzes with
        activity daily from 7am to 6pm. Just up a lane from the market is the
        Man Mo Temple, with long-burning incense coils hanging from its
        ceiling, a popular spot dedicated to the Taoist gods of war and
        literature.
        The railway line then curves gracefully around Tolo Harbor,
        an idyllic body of water well-protected from the open sea. You can take
        a ferryboat through the harbor, past the ingenious Plover Cove
        reservoir, a water catchment area appropriated by damming and draining
        a broad inlet from the sea. The boats go on to the friendly fishermens
        island of Tap Mun, in Mirs Bay, with stops in remote hamlets of the Sai
        Kung Peninsula. The Sai Kung area is the location of two official parks
        and nature preserves, while on the south side of the peninsula are some
        of the territorys best beaches.
        From the next railway station, the modern campus of the
        Chinese University of Hong Kong is visible. Teaching here is conducted
        in both Chinese and English. The Art Gallery in the Institute of
        Chinese Studies Building is worth a visit for its painting and
        calligraphy collections.
        Sha Tin is the site of the Monastery of 10,000 Buddhas,
        which looks down on a burgeoning town. There are hundreds of stone
        steps in the hillside to walk up before you reach Man Fat Temple with
        its regiments of small gilt statues of Buddha lining the walls. Some
        indefatigable climbers will want to go up to the top of the nine-story
        pink pagoda for a panoramic view. There is a total of 12,800 Buddha
        statues here, plus the remains of the monasterys founder embalmed in
        gold leaf. Also here is the Hongkong Heritage Museum (call Tel. 2180
        8188 for open hours). The museum has an art collection, and displays of
        toys and other artifacts.
        Down to earth, the Sha Tin Racecourse can accommodate over
        80,000 spectators and is equipped with every imaginable luxury,
        including a giant video screen facing the stands, and for the horses,
        air-conditioned stables. Opposite the Sha Tin railway station, New Town
        Plaza features shops, cinemas, and even a computer-controlled musical
        fountain.
        Two natural rock formations are always pointed out on
        excursions. Sha Tin Rock, better known as Amah Rock, is actually a pile
        of several rocks that resemble a woman with a baby in a sling on her
        back. Legend has it that a local woman climbed the hill every day to
        watch for her husband returning from across the sea; one day the wife
        and her child were turned to stone as a permanent symbol of her
        enduring faith. Closer to town is Lion Rock, shaped like a lion lying
        in wait. It really looks the part; the tourists know its name even
        before the guide can translate it.
        The Islands
        Excursion companies sell a variety of orientation cruises
        of Hong Kong harbor that include a look at some of its 235 outlying
        islands. These pleasant, but expensive, outings can lay the foundation
        for your own explorations aboard the cheap but usually comfortable
        ferries used by the islanders themselves. From the ferry terminals on
        Hong Kong Island you can escape to islands without cars or cares, where
        the local people smile hello and, if youre lucky, point you to a
        secret beach for the ultimate in quality leisure time. For ferry
        information, call Tel. 2542 3081 or 2525 1108.
        Lantau Island
        The mountainous island of Lantau is the biggest in the
        colony, and covers nearly twice the area of Hong Kong Island. Chek Lap
        Kok airport sits on reclaimed land just off Lantau; plans to build a
        bridge may change Lantau, but at present it is sparsely populated and
        makes a perfect getaway.
        At 934 m (3,064 ft), Lantau Peak is high enough to attract
        the occasional rain cloudrefreshingly cool breezes blow on most hot
        summer days. More than half the island is parkland, and there is a
        70-km (45-mile) circular hiking trail (see page 92). Ferries depart
        from Central every two hours between 6:10am and 10:30pm to Silvermine
        Bay (Mui Wo), where a bus terminal has buses to all parts of the
        island. There are also ferries to Discovery Bay.
        A short bus ride away is Cheung Sha Beach, 3 km (2 miles)
        long, and popular for its white sand and excellent facilities.
        The most famous site on the island is the worlds tallest
        seated bronze statue of Buddha at 22 m (72.6 ft), the Tiantan Buddha
        (see page 55). The statue and a small museum are on a peak, up 268
        steps, above Po Lin Monastery. The monastery is strictly vegetarian,
        and visitors are warned not to bring any meat with them. You can have a
        delicious vegetarian lunch here.
        From the monastery, hikers enjoy the two-hour cross-country
        trek down to Silvermine Bay, but the authorities have warned walkers to
        be on the lookout for snakes, which can be plentiful in the Lantau
        hinterland, especially in summer. The hillsides that surround the
        monastery are the site of Hong Kongs only tea plantation. Visitors are
        welcome to visit the 24-hectare (60-acre) establishment, and may sample
        the end product, Lantau tea.
        The islands largest community is Tai O. The people of this
        picturesque village make their living by fishing, duck-breeding, and
        food-processing. Many of the inhabitants liveby choice, not
        necessarily through economic hardshipon the water, aboard houseboats
        or in houses on stilts in the main creek.
        A Trappist monastery, situated on a hillside overlooking
        the east coast of Lantau, is also open to visitors. To get here, follow
        the path from the southwest end of Discovery Bay; the walk takes about
        30 minutes.
        Cheung Chau
        Some 10 km (6 miles) west of Hong Kong lies this small,
        crowded island, only one square mile in size. More than 25,000 people
        live here, mostly by fishing, but there are also ex-pats, attracted by
        its laid-back Mediterranean ambience. The island has a checkered past
        of smuggling and pira cy. That era is gone now, but other elements of
        the islands old life are preserved. The people still carve jade and
        build seaworthy junks, all by hand. Fish (heads discreetly wrapped in
        paper) are still hung out to dry in the sun.
        Cheung Chau becomes the center of Hong Kong life once a
        year, usually in May, during the Bun Festival, a folklore extravaganza
        (see page 89). The rest of the year, life goes on at its accustomed
        pace: rickety machines chugging in two-man factories, children in
        school uniforms being ferried home to houseboats, and the old fishermen
        stirring shrimp paste.
        By way of formal tourist attractions, Pak Tai Temple, built
        in 1783, has some fine carvings and a great iron sword said to be 600
        years old. But the most interesting thing to do here is to explore the
        two villages on the island, Cheung Chau and San Wai. They are an easy
        walk apart by the harbor road, or a longer 45-minute hike on the scenic
        Peak Road. The Praya, the promenade in front of the ferry pier, is a
        good place to observe the many junks and fishing boats in the harbor.
        There are also several open-air restaurants where you can enjoy fresh
        seafood.
        Lamma Island
        Only 35 minutes by ferry from Central, Lamma Island is
        perfect for swimming, hiking, picnicking, birdwatching, or just sitting
        back to watch the bananas grow. Hong Kongs third largest island has a
        population of only about 12,000; it is still largely undeveloped, and
        life on Lamma, if not totally primitive, is close to the essentials.
        Archaeologists indicate that Lamma has probably been inhabited for some
        4,000 years, and the island is known as Hong Kongs Stone Age Island.
        
        The principal settlements are Yung Shue Wan on Lammas
        northwest, and Sok Kwu Wan, on the east coast. Both villages offer good
        waterfront restaurants with homestyle Chinese food, principally seafood
        fresh from the tank. The ports are within hiking distance of several
        beautiful beaches, and within a one-hour hike of each other on a marked
        trail. You can build an appetite for dinner by making your way from the
        beach to the restaurant. Yung Shue Wan is still a very British
        residential enclave, with many nice pubs.
        An Excursion to Macau
        Macau, the final bastion of Portugals great 16th-century
        empire, is much more than just a quirk of history. Here, where East and
        West first met, life combines the spirit of Asia with something of the
        sunny atmosphere of the Mediterranean.
        Macaus historic center, with its colonial architecture,
        has a distinctly Mediterranean flavor. Colonnaded public
        buildings, iron balconies, winding streets, flagstoned squares and the
        many churches all speak of the Portuguese inheritance as well as the
        Chinese, a fusion of East and West that has produced the unique
        Macanese culture.
        The story of the Western discovery of Macau begins in 1513
        when Portuguese explorer, Jorge Alvares, reached the south coast of
        China. Traders followed in his wake, setting up bases in several parts
        of the Pearl River estuary. Finally, in 1557, they were all
        consolidated in Macau. It was the only European gateway to China, and
        through Macau flowed Western technology and religion. In 1576 Pope
        Gregory XIII created the Macau diocese, covering all of China and
        Japan.
        No less impressive were the secular challenges. China and
        Japan were not on speaking terms, so trade between them had to be
        channeled through a neutral middleman. Lucky Macau fit the
        specifications exactly. Portugals resulting near-monopoly of EastWest
        trade understandably awakened the competitive instincts of other
        European powers. The Dutch sent an invasion flotilla to Macau in 1622,
        but the defenders triumphed. However, the end of the golden age was
        drawing near. China began to relax trade restrictions, and with the
        rise of Hong Kong, Macau became an isolated Portuguese outpost.
        A haven for persecuted Japanese Christians in the 17th
        century, Portugals neutrality during World War II assured the
        territory a flood of refugees. They were joined by a swarm of spies of
        all conceivable nationalities, and Macau won a name for international
        intrigue.
        Portugals very precarious foothold on the Asian coast
        ended in 1999 with a formal handover to China. Macau, now the Chinese
        Special Economic Zone of Zhuhai, is becoming something like a boomtown
        as an exporter of toys, furniture, and electronics. New construction in
        the past 10 years has changed the citys skyline; with new, glittering
        hotels and highrise apartment blocks, the city is beginning to look a
        little more like Hong Kong.
        Macaus population is estimated at around 450,000, an
        appallingly high figure for such a small area; recent land reclamation
        has eased the situation to some extent. If a trace of tropical lethargy
        still adds to the charm in this city of sidewalk cafs, palm trees, and
        pedicabs, any torpor definitely ends once inside the doors of Macaus
        casinos, scene of some of the liveliest gambling west of Las Vegas.
        Gambling provides almost 40 percent of the governments tax revenues,
        and is a major source of employment. Its spin-off industries,
        prostitution and pawn shops, also thrive.
        Arriving
        The easiest way to get to Macau is by jetfoil, operated by
        TurboJet (Tel. 2859-3333). The 40-mile trip takes about an hour.
        Departures are from the Macau Ferry Terminal, just west of Central in
        the Shun Tak Centre, 200 Connaught Road, Central, in Hong Kong.
        Jetfoils leave every 15 to 30 minutes 24 hours a day.
        Entry procedures are similar to those in Hong Kongmost
        nationalities need only a passport to enter Macau. Macaus own
        currency, the pataca, is pegged to the Hong Kong dollar, and you can
        use your Hong Kong currency freely in Macau.
        Upon arrival in Macau, be sure to stop by the Macau
        Government Tourist Office for a map, brochures, and directions. Outside
        the terminal, you will find taxis as well as buses to all points (take
        3, 3A, 10, or 10A to the historic center; exact change is required).
        Youll also be approached by pedicab drivers; these are tricycles
        carrying two passengers. Pedicabs were once the most common form of
        transportation in Macau, but today they are mainly a tourist
        attraction.
        Sights in Macau
        Directly across the street from the wharf where passengers
        arrive from Hong Kong is the first surprise to greet visitors to
        Macauthe vast Jai-alai Palace, said to be the worlds most luxurious
        frontn. In an effort to provide yet one more thing to bet on, players
        are imported from Spain to take part in this lightning-fast Basque ball
        game.
        The grandstand situated on the seaside road, the Avenida
        da Amizade (Friendship Avenue), marks the finishing line for the Macau
        Grand Prix, the international car-racing event held here every
        November. Also in front of the ferry terminal is a new Cyber fountain,
        with 86 water spouts that shoot up to 70 m (230 ft) and are illuminated
        at night by 288 spotlights producing 80 colors.
        Continuing around the peninsula in a clockwise direction
        brings you to the Rua da Praia Grande (Big Beach Street)a pleasant
        promenade with shaded benches under the banyan trees. Along this
        elegant avenue is Government House, a modest pink palace.
        The central square of the historic city center is Largo do
        Senado. For an authentic feel of old Portugal, slip into the cool
        entrance hall of theimpressive Leal Senado (Loyal Senate building), a
        fine example of colonial architecture. On the inside walls are flowered
        blue tiles (azulejos) and coats of arms. The inscription over the
        archway reads, Cidade do nome de Deus, no ha outra mais leal (City
        of the Name of God, None is More Loyal)a bit of praise attributed
        to Portugals King John IV in the 17th century. For all its historic
        grandeur, the loyal Senate now is the equivalent of a city council, its
        statesmanship dedicated to water supplies, sewage lines, and the
        establishment of playgrounds.
        Macaus most memorable monument is the Baroque faade of
        the ruins of So Paulo, the only remains of a beautiful 17th-century
        Jesuit church. On top of a hill in the center of the city, its
        approached by a grand staircase. The rest of the building and an
        adjoining college were destroyed in a typhoon-fanned fire in 1835. The
        rich sculptural effects on the faade mix Eastern and Western symbols:
        familiar saints, Chinese dragons, and a Portuguese caravel. Beneath the
        church, the Museum of Sacred Art houses a collection of sacramental
        objects.
        The ambitious Museum of Macau (open TuesdaySunday
        10am6pm; admission HK$15) opened in 1998 in the lower levels of the
        Monte Fortress. Entrance is by escalator, near St. Pauls. It gives an
        overview of Macaus history and its daily life and traditions. A
        re-created street of colonial Macau is lined with traditional Chinese
        shops. The fort, built by the Jesuits in the 17th century as a defense
        against the Dutch, was largely destroyed by the same fire that burned
        St. Pauls.
        Lus Vaz de Cames (15241580), the Portuguese national
        poet whose work immortalized that countrys golden age of discoveries,
        may have stayed in Macau. Local legend claims that he wrote part of his
        great saga, Os Lusadas, in what is now called the Cames Grotto,
        situated in the spacious tropical Cames Garden.
        Next to the museum, behind a gate (opened to anyone who
        knocks), is the Old Protestant Cemetery. Those whose fate was to die on
        some far foreign field could not have wanted a more peaceful, lovely
        graveyard. The small, whitewashed chapelwas the first Protestant church
        built in China.
        For a different vision of Old China, spend a few quiet
        moments in the classic Lou Lim Ieoc Garden. Here, arched bridges,
        pagodas, fish ponds, and stands of bamboo create the mood of a timeless
        Chinese painting. Nearby is the Memorial House of Dr. Sun Yat-sen,
        founder of the Chinese Republic. Photos and documents tell the life
        story of the physician-revolutionary-statesman, who lived for a time in
        Macau, but never in this building.
        Kun Iam Tong, off Avenida do Coronel Mesquita (open daily
        8am6pm), is a 17th-century Buddhist temple of considerable splendor
        and charm. Surrounded by statues, carvings, and incense burners, here
        the faithful make their devotions and check their fortunes, and
        traditional funerary displays give a cheerful send-off to the recently
        departed.
        An unexpected piece of historical memorabilia turns up in
        the monastery garden, where guides point out a small stone table used
        for a treaty-signing ceremony in 1844. The signatories, who were the
        Chinese viceroy from Canton and the minister plenipotentiary of the
        United States of America, put their names to a historic documentthe
        first-ever treaty between the two countries.
        Another important ceremony took place in 1999 when Macau
        became part of China. The Handover Pavilion was meant to be a temporary
        structure, but public outcry ensured its preservation (located on Xian
        Xing Hai; open weekdays 10am6pm, until 10pm weekends). Nearby is the
        Macau Cultural Center and the Museum of Art (open TuesdaySunday
        10am7pm; closed Monday; small admission). 
        Macaus oldest museum, the Maritime Museum
        (WednesdayMonday 10am5:30pm; admission HK$10, HK$5 children over 10)
        traces the history of Macaus connection to the sea. Exhibits cover
        fishing, seaborne trade, sea transport, and there is an aquarium. The
        museum also offers boat tours aboard a fishing junk.
        The museum is almost on the spot where the Portuguese
        first landed. When they came ashore they found the A-Ma Temple
        (properly called Ma Kok Temple; open daily dawn to dusk), dedicated to
        the favorite goddess of fishermen, who is also known as Tin Hau. The
        area was called A-Ma Gau (Bay of A-Ma), and in this way, Macau got
        its name. The ornate, picturesque temple dates from the Ming Dynasty
        (13681644) and is the oldest building in Macau.
        The remains of the 17th-century Barra Fortress, which once
        defended the southern tip of the peninsula, contains the chapel of
        Santiago (St. James). The saint is much revered in the surrounding
        area. Among other legends surrounding the statue is a very modern one:
        During the Chinese Cultural Revolution, when Red Guards were running
        rampant on Wanchai island, just a swim away, the image of St. James is
        said to have stepped down from the altar and halted an invasion. Part
        of the fortress has been converted and is now used as a luxury inn. The
        northernmost point in Macau is the frontier between two contrasting
        worlds. The Barrier Gate (Portas do Cerco), which was built more than a
        century ago, marks the boundary between the enclave of Macau and the
        Peoples Republic of China.
        Trying Your Luck
        Macaus casinos are a source of non-stop excitement. There
        are 12 of them; you cant miss the eye-popping Lisboa, which has
        several floors of gambling, but theres also the Hyatt Regency, the
        Mandarian Oriental, and Taipas Jockey Club. The fancifully decorated
        Macau Palace, a floating casino moored on the western waterfront, is
        fitted out with gambling tables, slot machines (known locally as
        hungry tigers) and, for hungry humans, a restaurant. Gambling is
        wildly popular with the Chinese of Hong Kong, and they make up nearly
        80 percent of all visitors to the casinos.
        The casinos offer familiar international gamesbaccarat,
        blackjack, boule, craps, roulettealong with more exotic Chinese
        pastimes. Watch the fantan dealer for a few minutes and youll almost
        be an expert: Its simply a matter of how many odd buttons are left
        after he has divided a pile of them into groups of four.
        Dai-Siu (Big and Small) is a dice game in which the
        croupier throws three dice inside a glass container. Players bet on the
        numbers that will come up, and on whether the result will be big or
        small.  Keno is a variation of bingo in which the player chooses
        numbers to bet on before the draw is made.
        The casinos have no admission charge and formal dress is
        optional, though long pants for men are required. They keep busy 24
        hours a day, but if you want a change of scene there are always more
        gambling opportunities available. You can try your luck at pari mutuel
        betting on jai-alai at pari mutuel, greyhound-racing at the Canidrome
        (one of the largest in the world), and harness-racing on Taipa.
        Shopping in Macau
        Like Hong Kong, Macau is a duty-free port. It is famous
        for its gold jewelry. Market prices per tael (34 grams/1.2 ounces) of
        gold are set daily. You should always ask for a certificate of
        guarantee when you buy gold or jewelry. Look for jewelry shops along
        Avenida do Infante D. Henrique and Avenida de Almeida Ribeiro.
        Browsing is a real pleasure in Macaus main streets and
        byways, where shops aimed at the tourist market are interspersed with
        the more workaday ironmongers, herbalists, and noodle stalls.
        Knowledgeable visitors look for antiqueseither Chinese heirlooms or
        leftovers from the gracious Portuguese colonial days. However, you are
        not likely to find bargains, and you should be aware that unless you
        are an expert, you can end up with a fake. Also worth investigating are
        contemporary handicrafts, both Portuguese and Chinese, from across the
        border.
        Food and Drink
        Gourmets award Macau high marks for dependable Chinese
        cooking with an exotic bonus: Portuguese food and wines. Macaus own
        cuisine is a combination of Chinese flavors with the flavors imported
        from Portugal, Brazil, and Africa. Whether you choose to dine in one of
        the Macanese, Chinese, traditional Portuguese, or international-style
        restaurants, you will be treated to a hearty meal at a good price.
        The ingredients, especially the fresh fish and seafood,
        are first-rate. A delicate, delicious fish is Macau sole (linguado).
        Imported dried cod (bacalhao) is the Portuguese national dish; several
        varieties are available, usually baked.
        Macau has an ample supply of Portuguese wines. Try a vinho
        verde, a mildly sparkling young wine from northern Portugal, or a
        hearty red Do or Colares. After dinner, a glass of Madeira or port is
        recommended to round off the meal. The more abstemious can stick to
        Portuguese mineral water.
        Taipa and Coloane
        Bridges link Macau with its two islands. Since the
        construction of the New Macau-Taipa Bridge has allowed easy access to
        the airport, the population has grown to more than 30,000, with
        industrial development, new apartment blocks, and luxury resort
        hotels.
        The quaint Taipa Village, with its narrow lanes and
        colonial buildings painted yellow, blue, and green, has almost been
        completely swallowed up by the development of nearby housing projects.
        The island is also the designated home of the University of East Asia.
        Pay a visit to the Casa Museu da Taipa, and youll be able to get a
        glimpse of how Macanese families lived in former days. A grand colonial
        house, fully restored and outfitted with period furnishings, provides
        the centerpiece for this expanding cultural village. 
        Farther away is Coloane, connected to Taipa by a causeway
        and a large land reclamation project. Not as developed as Taipa, it
        offers the joys of sand and sea and is known for its beaches. Cheoc Van
        and Hac Sa (Black Sands) are both popular resort areas, with
        lifeguards on duty in summer and windsurfing boards for rent. There are
        restaurants, swimming pools, and changing facilities. The village of
        Coloane is picturesque, with a central square lined with cafs. The
        waterfront drive parallels the shore of a Chinese island, and boats
        headed to China pass through the narrow waterway. The small Chapel of
        St. Francis Xavier is dedicated to the 16th-century patron saint of
        missionaries, and has on display the elbow of the saint, along with the
        bones of numerous Japanese and Vietnamese martyrs.
        Seac Pai Van Park, on the west coast of the island is an
        interesting natural preserve with aNatural History Museum.
        An Excursion to Guangzhou (Canton)
        Guangzhou was Chinas major seaport for 2,000 years and
        the center for European traders in the 19th century. The city still
        maintains its important gateway role. Ever since 1957 the Canton Trade
        Fair (officially the Chinese Export Commodities Fair) has attracted
        throngs of international business people every spring and autumn.
        Guangzhou, with a population of more than 5 million,
        straddles the Pearl RiverChinas fifth longestwhich links the
        city to the South China Sea. This waterway accounts for much of the
        local charm and excitement, as the daily drama of the ferryboats,
        junks, sampans, freightersand even small tankers and big
        gunboatsunfolds right in the center of town. The river also
        irrigates the carefully tended surrounding farmlands, creating a
        beautifully lush, subtropical scene. Guangdong Province has some of
        Chinas most fertile land, and grows two crops of rice a year, along
        with vegetables of all kinds.
        Guangzhou today is mostly about business and industry,
        featuring new development, skyscrapers, a whole new business area, and
        raised expressways. The scary traffic is a real experiencevehicles
        of all kinds jockey for position on crowded streets, missing each other
        by inches, and speeding on the freeways is rampant. Guangzhou is
        interestingly one of Chinas most prosperous cities, determinedly on
        the move into the modern world. It seems that the picturesque older
        sections with their old houses, narrow streets, and winding alleyways
        may not be around much longer.
        Arriving in Guangzhou
        There are many package tours to Guangzhou from Hong Kong
        (see page 113), and this may be the easiest way to visit the city.
        However, its also easy to get to Guangzhou by train or ferry. Four
        comfortable express trains depart the Kowloon-Canton Railway (KCR)
        Station in Hung Hom, Kowloon, making the trip in less than two hours.
        Turbo Cat ferries leave the China Hong Kong City (CHKC) terminal twice
        a day; the journey takes two hours. Citibus also travels to Guangzhou
        from CHKC; there are five round-trips a day, taking 31/2 hours.
        You will need a visa to enter China (see page 109 for
        information). Hong Kong currency is widely accepted in Guangzhou, or
        you can change your currency into RMB (yuan) at any bank or hotel.
        Note, however, that the exchange does not go the other way (see page
        116).
        Guangzhou, like Hong Kong, is primarily
        Cantonese-speaking, but many people also speak Mandarin. English is
        spoken in hotels and tourist destinations.
        If you travel by train, you will arrive at the Guangzhou
        East Station, a large modern complex, which connects with the subway,
        buses, hotel transfer services, and taxis. The train station is in the
        newer business district; nearby is Asias third-tallest building, at 83
        stories, which will often be pointed out to you.
        Sights in Guangzhou
        Yuexiu Park, situated near the Trade Fair in the northern
        part of the city, is Guangzhous largest; it covers a hilly 100
        hectares (247 acres). The park is landscaped with lakes and gardens. In
        the park is the 1380 Zhenhai Tower, one of the citys oldest buildings.
        Actually a five-story pavilion on a hilltop, it contains a fine
        collection of historical exhibits. Dr. Sun Yat-sens Memorial Hall
        honors the founder of the Chinese Revolution, flanked by his heroic
        statue in copper. Dr. Sun Yat-sen (18661925) began his political
        career in Canton. This enormous, modern version of a traditional
        Chinese building, with sweeping blue tile roofs, contains an auditorium
        big enough to seat 4,700 people. It was built in 1931 with
        contributions from overseas Chinese. The center of the park is the Five
        Rams Statue. It celebrates the founding of Guangzhou, when five spirits
        rode their goats down from the celestial realm to present the
        inhabitants of the city with their very first grains of rice.
        Guangzhous most important Buddhist monument is the
        1,400-year-old Temple of the Six Banyan Trees (open 8am5pm). Although
        the banyan trees that once flourished here are now no more, the
        often-restored complex has remained a focus of local Buddhist
        activities. Golden Buddha statues in several of Buddhas aspects adorn
        the temples, and overlooking them is the 17-story Flower Pagoda, a
        slender relic of the Song dynasty (a.d. 9601279).
        In the early Middle Ages, Canton had a significant Muslim
        population as a result of its trade with the Middle East. This explains
        the presence in Guangzhou of the Huaisheng Mosque, reputed to be
        Chinas oldest, and traditionally dated a.d. 627. Rebuilt in modern
        times, the mosque serves the small local community of Muslims. The
        modern minaret is known as the Plain (or Naked) Pagoda, in contrast
        to the Flower Pagoda of the Buddhist temple.
        Chen Jia Ci, the Chen Family Institute (open daily
        8:30am5pm), was built in the late 19th century to promote arts and
        crafts. An architectural wonder, it is itself a beautiful piece of
        craftsmanship with its sculpture and carved stone balustrades.
        Porcelain friezes adorn the rooftops and ridgepoles, telling the story
        of the Romance of the Three Kingdoms. Inside is a collection of
        ceramics, carvings, and furniture. There is also a market and a
        porcelain shop.
        A former Confucian temple is presently the home of the
        historic National Peasant Movement Institute, where the Chinese
        Communist Party trained its leaders in the 1920s. Mao Zedong himself
        directed the institute in 1926, and gave lectures on geography, rural
        education, and The Problem of the Chinese Peasantry.  Zhou Enlai also
        taught here.
        The atmosphere of 19th-century Canton is best evoked on
        Shamian Island, a haunting, nostalgic place in the Pearl River. This
        small formerly residential island, beautifully shaded by banyan trees,
        was the home of the closed community of the foreign colony in the era
        of concessions.  The bridges were barred by night with iron gates to
        keep the Chinese out. Its stately European-style buildings have since
        been restored, largely for use as government offices and foreign
        legations. The island also has Guangzhous first modern luxury resort
        hotel.
        A popular optional excursion is an hours detour to
        Guangzhou Zoo, founded in 1958. It houses more than 200 animal species,
        most famous of which is the giant panda, and has an imaginative monkey
        mountain behind a moat.
        Not to be missed is a visit to Guangzhous famous open-air
        market, Qing Ping. Guangzhou is famous for its food. The Cantonese love
        to eat and have the reputation of eating almost anything that walks on
        four legs. The market bears this out: Along with the usual ducks and
        chickens, you will see for sale snakes, dogs, bats, and sometimes
        monkeysall are highly prized as delicacies. More pleasantly, you can
        browse among lanes of antiques, flowers, herbs, fruit, goldfish,
        songbirds, and more.
        A Side Trip to Foshan
        A very popular day-trip from Guangzhou goes to Foshan, a
        city of nearly 300,000 people, renowned for its handicrafts for more
        than a thousand years. The individual artisans shops are no longer
        here, but you can visit a silk-weaving factory, a ceramics plant, and
        the Foshan Folk Art Studio, where you can observe workers making
        Chinese lanterns, carving sculptures, painting scrolls, and cutting
        intricate designs in paper. The Foshan Art Porcelain Factory has
        traditional designs, but also some attractive modern pieces.
        Foshans most outstanding artistic monument is Zu Miao,
        the Taoist Ancestral Temple, a Sung dynasty establishment rebuilt in
        the 14th century and well worth visiting. Constructed in wood, brick,
        stone, ceramic, and bronze, this is a work of extravagant beauty,
        uniting many ancient art forms. The complex contains the oldest wooden
        stage in China, used by the Wan Fu Tai Chinese opera.
        An Excursion to Shenzhen
        Shenzhen was Chinas first Special Economic Zone.
        Literally created out of rural farmland, it was set up in the 1970s as
        the answer to Hong Kong. From a population of 20,000 it has grown into
        a metropolis of 2.5 million, with tightly clustered skyscrapers and
        some of Chinas highest grossing industries.
        Because Shenzhen is much cheaper than Hong Kong, it is a
        popular weekend destination for Hong Kongs Chinese, who come to relax,
        dine in its resorts, and play golfShenzhen hosted the World Cup of
        Golf in 1995. It is even becoming something of a commuter townowning
        or renting an apartment here costs a fraction of what it would in Hong
        Kong.
        Shenzhen is easy to reachthe KCR commuter train runs
        throughout the day, the trip taking about 40 minutes. Visitors need a
        visa to enter China, and must disembark at the border (now called
        boundary) checkpoint, Lo Wai. City buses also go to Shenzhen. A Turbo
        Cat ferry makes a one-hour trip (7am7pm) from Hong Kongs Macau Ferry
        Terminal to Shekou on the Natau Peninsula, which is part of the
        economic zone.
        Shenzhen is a premier shopping center, and much cheaper
        than Hong Kong. It is known for its inexpensive (but well-made)
        knock-off designer goods. You can use your Hong Kong dollars here, so
        theres no need to change currency. Some places take credit cards, but
        cash is better for bargaining. Just across the border is the huge Lo Wu
        City shopping mall, to which you can walk; other shopping malls are
        nearby.
        Shenzhens main tourist attractions are its enormous theme
        parks. One of themSplendid Chinapurports to show all of China in
        one day.  It contains elaborate replicas of Chinas chief monuments in
        impressive detail, including a scaled-down version of the Great Wall.
        The 24 China Folk Culture Villages represent Chinas ethnic variety;
        they feature craftspeople in traditional costumes along with folksong
        and dance performances.
        In Shekou is a large Free Market, and an exhibition of
        Xians terra-cotta warriors.
      
    
  
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<cesDoc xmlns="http://www.xces.org/schema/2003" version="1.0.4">
<text>
<body>
<p>just setting up my twttr</p>
<p>tm help</p>
<p>Wondering if I should quit work and become a monk who secretly writes serial murder thriller novels.</p>
<p>Going to bed.</p>
<p>gary coleman sighting by Zoom. The rumors were true</p>
<p>Festmob. In The Signal premiere. Lotsa buyers. Good luck gang</p>
<p>listening to the pocast net@nite while setting up twitter</p>
<p>watching windows 386 promo video, lol</p>
<p>getting ready for work</p>
<p>going to work</p>
<p>in vista training, this is boring</p>
<p>just came back from supper, now to go back to boring vista training</p>
<p>just finished my last break now for an office 2007 module</p>
<p>i have to get up in 6 hours to drive my sister so i am going to catch some z's</p>
<p>just finished an office 2007 test and got 100%</p>
<p>i am in vista training, yeah another day of it, and this is so dry and boring so half of us are on other sites</p>
<p>lol i work at dell and i do not know how much more microsoft i can take</p>
<p>i jsut finished vista training yeah!!!</p>
<p>Just set up phone connection to twitter.  Am so going to bed now have a long day tomorrow</p>
<p>Mmmmm quad venti caramel macciato with extra caramel  and a shot of vanilla</p>
<p>In shaw looking for family</p>
<p>Holy holy holy is the lord God almighty</p>
<p>Wow she finally finished.....now for elective 1....audio 101</p>
<p>Waiting in longggggggggggg line for food, the only question is what to eat?</p>
<p>Lunch time, yeah!  With cara</p>
<p>Lunch time, yeah!  With friends</p>
<p>Elective 2;  audio 102</p>
<p>Session 3 micing</p>
<p>Supper time!!!! Yeah!!! japanese</p>
<p>I am backstage for a large concert.   Get to watch video production!!!!!!!</p>
<p>Lol technical difficulties and the crowd is singing for joy</p>
<p>Main session is over.  Time to find people</p>
<p>I am sitting waitng for the session......I HATE NEGATIVE SPACE....People  sqeuazing me in</p>
<p>at work, wow i haven't updated in a while...oops!</p>
<p>Discovering twitter in a purple sofa...</p>
<p>Why isn't Wii released in Singapore yet?!</p>
<p>surfing the net</p>
<p>playing around on twitter</p>
<p>At work</p>
<p>Watching the valentine's day pillowfight sans pillow, camera crack'd, feathers in hair, copters o'erhead. Here and not here.</p>
<p>Talking about 24 in the cars, we pass Bauer's  limo service.</p>
<p>Aww, I'm sorry about your camera EC! If it makes you feel better mine cracked on valentine's.</p>
<p>There is no great genius without a drop of madness, amigo.</p>
<p>Why are you  in a motorized wheelchair?!</p>
<p>So I guess it is back to work.</p>
<p>It is raining heavily and I forgot to being an umbrella. How am I suppose to go home now?</p>
<p>Just 1 shotted Black Morass. Getting better!</p>
<p>Woo, felt the tremor. I feeling giddy!</p>
<p>heading to bosslady session -- hopefully won't be packed?</p>
<p>registering at twitter</p>
<p>thinking about going home to fry up yesterday's mashed potatoes</p>
<p>just joined twitter. changing settings and finding friends. :)</p>
<p>having ice cream from hungry jacks...</p>
<p>Train's backseat,windowside a babushka:chubby,middleaged,lilac headscarf, long blackdress.Beside her:framed 3/4 lifesize b&w MarilynMonroe p</p>
<p>signing up with twitter</p>
<p>Composing and posting an advert to gumtree.com to let a very big room in my house in London E5 9EG (10mins to City for 350 pcm bill inc).</p>
<p>Posted ad for room url</p>
<p>Posted a website about my room in London for let url</p>
<p>Listening to music with the kids url</p>
<p>looking at social network site url and considering if I should watch a couple of episodes of Heroes or rock  baby</p>
<p>Going to watch 2/3 episodes of Heroes on url after doing a spot of food shopping (Baby is sleeping).</p>
<p>nothing!</p>
<p>At work BRCS developing Crystal Reports using Property data from a Progress Database and thinking about making kerjodando p2p open source.</p>
<p>I'm wangling my hoop-spanner, of course.</p>
<p>Eating a croissant and going through my emails pondering how to move my opensource project kerjodando p2p to sourceforge url</p>
<p>listening to the Gossip and Arctic Monkeys on Hype Machine url and url</p>
<p>Also doing a Ruby on Rails spreadsheet for Building Surveyors at the British Red cross Society probably take all day. url</p>
<p>Going to a meeting on Israel at the British Red Cross</p>
<p>Adding a filter to my Ruby on Rails spreadsheet.</p>
<p>Going home on the overground</p>
<p>Babbling, seemingly homeless San Francisco bag lady  all the more disconcerting for carrying Sur La Table bags.Sigh. Damn Reagan.</p>
<p>I'm totally crushing out on this Frenchman's voice, bit it's so smooth I can't concentrate on what he's saying at this conference.Like breas</p>
<p>Reading about childbirth.Its a messy business alright.I think I shall take along some of those glasses with the eyes painted on...</p>
<p>Sitting on the couch, reading email</p>
<p>Seriously jonesin' for  Nairns mini-oatcakes---verily the heroin of  Scotland!</p>
<p>coffeebreak :-)</p>
<p>Astonished by the rain gusting over the city . .where did Saturday's lemonade sunshine go?</p>
<p>Of course my perspective on the weekend weather was warped by hiking  in Conta Costa. . .</p>
<p>Adding a filter to my Ajax Scaffold page on Ruby on Rails spreadsheet that I'm writing for the BRCS (url ).</p>
<p>6pm: Living Black investigates allegations of racism in Tamworth, NSW. (28 March)</p>
<p>GOING BUSH, 8pm: Cathy Freeman and Luke Carrol embark on a 3000km odyssey. Tonight, a big outback party in Hermannsburg.</p>
<p>THE MIGHTY BOOSH, 10:05pm: Howard hooks a grotesque "man-fish" covered in seaweed, who introduces himself as Old Gregg.</p>
<p>Back in Singapore, very busy. Very busy also complain, nothing to do also complain.</p>
<p>GigaOm-twitters are kicking this thing up a notch. . I'm  still sticking to poetic appreciation of vernal dusk. God l love this sky.</p>
<p>At work conducting meetings</p>
<p>Testing my SMS link to Twittr</p>
<p>Off to Vitale for another B2-bash---looking forward to soaking in some sun.</p>
<p>Running late.</p>
<p>SBS is nominated for 7 Logies, including 3 for Remote Area Nurse and 2 for Dateline's Abu Ghraib coverage.</p>
<p>LAST RIGHTS: Insight, 7:30pm. Should we have the right to choose when we die? Subscribe to the podcast: url</p>
<p>Now I am really goingto bed.</p>
<p>trying to delve into twitter's IM features</p>
<p>testing my twitter capabilities via gtalk for the first time</p>
<p>pleased that the test worked</p>
<p>thinking about lunch, even though it's only 10.30am</p>
<p>I am up, showered, and ready for Tuesday.</p>
<p>Enjoying a Con Law lecture.</p>
<p>Listening to Armstrong explain where to file Supreme Court cases.</p>
<p>emailing out to plw about this all...</p>
<p>and i meant to say, got pressured into it and never used it again... for all the reasons previously mentioned.</p>
<p>wishes twitterim was working, and that i didn't have 6.170 hanging over my head all the time</p>
<p>Atleast you're not checking your mail while driving!</p>
<p>Standing aaround waiting for the killers' openers---already getting second hand smoked.</p>
<p>I am a horrible twitter, I should start again.  just a web interface does not work for me and neither does that other mac app</p>
<p>MYTHBUSTERS, 7:30pm: Can a cracked valve on a compressed-air cylinder actually blast the tank right through a cinder-block wall?</p>
<p>Driven to distraction by another lemonade sunshine day;jealous of los anjalis' plan to feast and shake booty in the sun. Hollaback at you!</p>
<p>"I could have whipped her ass but I gave all those dogs a pass."---girl on my bart platform</p>
<p>Mac OS X updating</p>
<p>Concerned that I may be catching a cold</p>
<p>Back from Trader Joe's with some chile spiced mangos.</p>
<p>Publication troubles...</p>
<p>Back from a workout</p>
<p>Tofu scramble!</p>
<p>Strange weather</p>
<p>Making lots of ads.</p>
<p>Why is it that when I am early for work everyone else is late?</p>
<p>Eati ng a humbolt county</p>
<p>Going to to Battle Ground with the Family - we are going to get some furniture - TY Craig's List</p>
<p>Getting ready to leave</p>
<p>Sitting at home with the kids</p>
<p>at home working on worship for tonight</p>
<p>Sedar festivities</p>
<p>Muffin, coffee, reader morning</p>
<p>at church...</p>
<p>Joined twitter to see what is the twitter buzz is about.</p>
<p>Testing my GoogleTalk connection to Twitter.</p>
<p>shut it</p>
<p>chaging my background picture</p>
<p>testing a new pluging for twitter</p>
<p>K</p>
<p>singing songs. beating bongos.</p>
<p>INSIGHT: BRATZ, BRAS AND TWEENS, 7:30 tonight. Is there a real danger that kids are being exposed to sex too soon?</p>
<p>Download or subscribe to the Insight podcast: url</p>
<p>Signing up for twitter :-)</p>
<p>Between faceboook and twitter I'll never have to actually talk to my friends again!Also I'm  wearing a parrot green shirt AND jacket--crazy!</p>
<p>gone to Web 2.0 exhibit hall</p>
<p>BONES OF CONTENTION: Should ultra-skinny models be banned from the catwalk? Tonight on Dateline, 8:30pm.</p>
<p>Subscribe to the Dateline podcast: url</p>
<p>Think might be falling sick.</p>
<p>Testing Maxthon twitter plugin...</p>
<p>It works... cool.</p>
<p>THE SADDEST MUSIC IN THE WORLD: A Canadian beer baroness holds a competition to find the world's saddest music. Tonight, 10:35pm</p>
<p>Ad master 4040...prepare for liftoff</p>
<p>What's wrong with everyone today? Seems like everyone is having PMS.</p>
<p>Craving a second mocha and longing for a massage. FiDi chair massage clinic is my new get-rich-quick fantasy.</p>
<p>large metal bas relief based on NG "Afghan girl wuth the eyes" photo makes me ponder IP: mashup or derivative?</p>
<p>Drinking a strawberrys and cream frappaccino in the sunshine</p>
<p>Got my earth day groove on inside an AC Transit bus, resurrecting the sesame-street  charm of public transit. Lovely day in Elmwood. Happy!</p>
<p>I didn't know Venus takes 243 of our days to rotate. That's crazy! Too bad it's so inhospitable.</p>
<p>is wondering how the hell she's going to write a 10-page paper on text messaging...</p>
<p>Twitting this from KL!</p>
<p>testing 30boxes powertwitter firefox extension</p>
<p>It worked, I'm twitting!</p>
<p>I feel tired. I wonder how those people who flies frequently can find the energy to work.</p>
<p>XY Doc: "Secrets - A Film About Teen Sexuality" Tonight, 10pm. Enter the realm of the new norms of teenage sex.</p>
<p>About to see Ravi  Shankar play!</p>
<p>Holycow! Ithink Shiv Kumar Sharma just walked past me!</p>
<p>So far "just" Anoushka, who's amazing and gorgeous in a sleek new hair style. Her smile reminds me of ANNA.</p>
<p>Oh my god, that was so amazing. I am tingling. Why do we ever do anything but  listen to music?!</p>
<p>I am reading the Wall Street Journal.</p>
<p>erm, just trying out twitter, thanks for asking</p>
<p>Having fun with work:-)</p>
<p>Sudden sunshine not improving mood. Need word for dry appreciation of beauty that fascinates the mind but doesn't warm the heart.</p>
<p>just installed twitbin, the firefox twitter extension. :D</p>
<p>Waking up with a new president</p>
<p>trying out a nice new firefox extension: url</p>
<p>found tumblr thx to lisamac... just another thing to make me wish there where 30 hours in a day... :D url</p>
<p>XY Doc: "Turn Me On" - The history of the vibrator. Tonight, 10pm.</p>
<p>Don't forget to check out Eurovision on Saturday and Sunday night.</p>
<p>Spread the word: let your friends know that SBS is twittering. Program updates, uh, sporadically, at this stage.</p>
<p>wasting time waiting for Victor Kelly complaint of racial discrimination at the British Red Cross.</p>
<p>Playing with twitter on my mobile when I ought to be working</p>
<p>I am wasting time setting up twitter on my mobile phone when I ought to be working instead.</p>
<p>OK back to work - everyone wearing red today as it is red cross day.  Think I will write email to investigator about Victor Kelly's case to</p>
<p>still waiting for Victor Kelly's claim for racial dioscrimination reply.</p>
<p>Working on some invoices rather than my Ruby on Rails project.</p>
<p>Having a quick read of Computer weekly to see if there is any stuff about Ruby on rails</p>
<p>Out at  lunch</p>
<p>Got a copy of Victor's malicious accusations</p>
<p>Reading through Victor Kellys notes and updating www.itsdargens.com web2.0 anonymous p2p site</p>
<p>Taking a lot longer than I thought to do a Ruby on Rails update.</p>
<p>studying SPM</p>
<p>bored</p>
<p>Just finish red cross week chese and wine now back to worrying</p>
<p>Just tested skype on my mobile it works really well N95</p>
<p>Still working on kerjodando 0.2 anonmous web 2.0 p2p client</p>
<p>enjoying music</p>
<p>Stuck in petrol station because of heavy rain</p>
<p>Just created a profile on Twitter</p>
<p>Sending mail to yda-discuss about url</p>
<p>Setup mobile twitter</p>
<p>Developing a plan for collaboration architecture and strategy</p>
<p>studying cas</p>
<p>don't feel like studying any more</p>
<p>Working on a webex alternate plan.</p>
<p>working in web cafe on new web gui for kerjodando 0.2 - it is nearly working now</p>
<p>On the bus on my way to work. Feeling very depressed.</p>
<p>I *HATE* Tuesdays!</p>
<p>twitter me!</p>
<p>Meathead band?! Muse might be gushy but they're hardly meathead! But how can I not love Super Massive Black Hole?! ;)</p>
<p>Attempting to salvage my Final Major Project for College...</p>
<p>About to go to bed, Joe wont shut the hell up.....</p>
<p>Someone once told me there is a poetry to being ill,the bodily awareness that comes from your epithelia making themselves felt.Don't buy it.</p>
<p>Contemplating lymph.</p>
<p>The guy behind me on the train is throat singing or something and it's driving me crazy. Oh look, he just stopped. Thanks, twitter.r</p>
<p>Decided that most important thing for project is a cvs</p>
<p>Emily and Nate just won the King  of Fling Catapult contest! I'm  so proiud! And I inherited a mysterious catapult too.</p>
<p>Mythbusters, 7:30 tonight: Mailbag Special. Jamie and Adam invite four teams of viewers to visit M5 for an Archimedes Death Ray challenge.</p>
<p>The Movie Show is returning to SBS soon. Send me a direct message if you'd like to help beta-test the new website.</p>
<p>checking my email...la la la</p>
<p>Sitting on train sulking</p>
<p>Making plan for improving kerjodando p2p</p>
<p>On way to work thinking of setting up a cvs today for kerjodando.</p>
<p>Reading software design using java 2</p>
<p>Sourcing, recruiting</p>
<p>Back to paper of Piratpartiet.</p>
<p>Recovering from an excellent ride across the South Downs chasing sheep</p>
<p>Randomly picked up the May issue of Vogue and am now, predictably, irate. It's 2007 & 9/10 of "world's next top  models" are white? WTF?!</p>
<p>Back from another ride across the South Downs chasing Foxes in the Rain.</p>
<p>Lecturing at Kajaani,</p>
<p>Working with a paper about Piratpartiet</p>
<p>The eagle has flown! Well on my escape from corporate servitude! Sweet taste of freedom!</p>
<p>installing lots of apps on my Facebook profile</p>
<p>Resting my heels by crouching amid standers, as we wait in the foggy Greek Theatre for The Arcade Fire. . .</p>
<p>Overheard at concert :  they really take this instrument switching business seriously. Now the drummer has a guitar</p>
<p>Preictably  I am crushing out on  crazy white shirted climbing guy in Arcade Fire. That seriously rocked!</p>
<p>checkin' out twitter.......not sure that I "get it"  O_o</p>
<p>signed up for blogger</p>
<p>ok... i think I get it.</p>
<p>Are you, or do you know, a keen soccer player or fan? You could win a trip to Thailand thanks to Telstra: url</p>
<p>Still warm and bouncy from hitting the mat---first day back at the dojo after almost two years!</p>
<p>Lecturing at Helsinki</p>
<p>Day off today, watching video podcasts: Pop!tech Richard Alley and Brian Fagan; Best of Everest#47; Rocketboom; and Mobuzz</p>
<p>At Helsinki organizing a 8.6. seminar see in Finnish: matrixx.fi</p>
<p>lookin' at utube</p>
<p>secondlife not worth bothering with today</p>
<p>justin.tv and ijustine have disappeared O_O</p>
<p>reading macrumors</p>
<p>I am looking forward to the weekend! Golf in the am. Goodnight</p>
<p>Helsinki, coordinating a workshop about foresighting</p>
<p>Watching Olgas breast jiggle in time with Gael's ears</p>
<p>At Helsinki, consultating case.</p>
<p>Chip kidd on stage. Talking about zoetrope. Doing impressions.</p>
<p>Augusten bourroughs Dry. Running with sissors</p>
<p>Yidish policemans union cover</p>
<p>"learn to write, do crossword puzzle in NY times"</p>
<p>Next up ... Packaging with personality</p>
<p>Sharon werner . Mrs meyers brand and personality ten rum connect write back inspiration neighborhood . Four stories about packaging</p>
<p>Perfect imperfections</p>
<p>Cyrus highsmith " I like to write I like to read type design is a pretty cool job"</p>
<p>2 type designers copy old and copy self, old Results in no single style self shows  an interpretation . There is a lot of overlap between th</p>
<p>Form and counterform is type.  Daley's Gothic based on steel brush.  Draw the space between the branches. DISPATCH slab areif for heavy lift</p>
<p>Stainless a partner to dispatch.  Antenna a cold face for architecture  magazine.  Amira caligraphic sans. Kiosko news face for el Salvador</p>
<p>sign is colorful developed from dwiggins. Escrow for wall street journal. Novia for Martha Stewart. History of type as fuel. Job of the desi</p>
<p>more easy to describe.</p>
<p>You lose control of your typeface once it is released into the world. Work everyday remember what you are doing.</p>
<p>Creating a typeface for content creating content around a typeface. Think deeply about your audience.  HFO nop then hamburgefonsiv when desi</p>
<p>trying to get up the energy to get the garbage and recycling out onto the curb</p>
<p>doorbell ringing..going to answer it</p>
<p>wow, long visit with a friend..but it was fun....informative</p>
<p>eating glossette raisins..yum...and now need to design a cd jacket</p>
<p>Wanting to sleep because I am dog tired but not able to sleep (because I am dog tired?)</p>
<p>checking out Twitter</p>
<p>going to get coffee and collect canvases for new paintings</p>
<p>spending a beautiful sunny afternoon indoors painting</p>
<p>Watching the "Best of Everest" podcast...gettin' vertigo!!!</p>
<p>waiting for someone to sponsor me for the London To Brighton Bike Ride !</p>
<p>learning Decision Support Systems. it's borring like "Crime and punishment"</p>
<p>Finally pushing this thing live!</p>
<p>in Cincinnati</p>
<p>I'm working at this damn job</p>
<p>I'm testing twitter!</p>
<p>Drinking enegetic drink, hope that helps</p>
<p>Waiting for Raley to get back from the hospital :(</p>
<p>www.tw3t.com/16g</p>
<p>going to get a haircut!</p>
<p>Talking sailing with the hair stylist</p>
<p>Back at work!</p>
<p>testing twitter on facebook</p>
<p>Very excited to be kiteboarding in 2 days!</p>
<p>At work, showing Simon how cool Twitter is</p>
<p>at new network theory conference</p>
<p>at Dam, Netherlands, at conference New Network Theory</p>
<p>Made news posting to zeropaid. Now on way home.</p>
<p>Why does it always take so long  to get started on an expedition?</p>
<p>changing my ringtone</p>
<p>Sitting watching kerjodando ants p2p anonymous file sharing number of users climbing higher</p>
<p>working...juiced up on latte's!</p>
<p>Clothes shopping in BRENT CROSS</p>
<p>It turns out that being lectured at by a stranger that "see,  there are these things called quantum transitions" makes me cranky. ;p</p>
<p>watching tv</p>
<p>my fav par tof my job -- giving bonuses</p>
<p>preparing the report for ps</p>
<p>Trying Pownce and still primarily using Jaiku.</p>
<p>playing with twitted on my iPhone.</p>
<p>Going to bed so I can wake up at 7am</p>
<p>Going to sleep</p>
<p>shopping for ken and meghan's wedding gift.</p>
<p>Reading: "Nurses confront violence on the job - CNN.com" (url</p>
<p>Booking August Tour!</p>
<p>Right, so we have a gig tonight in Sudbury. We confirmed another tour date today, go Leicester. All dates are up on myspace and our website</p>
<p>Last night's show was good. We played well, so hot and sweaty though! Didn't get home 'til 2am! Knackered!</p>
<p>reading 'atlas shrugged'</p>
<p>Diagnostic Center Open@MRH - url</p>
<p>listening to music</p>
<p>New Tour Date today... we confirmed our Manchester venue as JABEZ CREGG! Gonna be fun! THU 2nd AUG!</p>
<p>Looking to get your MSN? Online? HCA wants to help. - url</p>
<p>web design</p>
<p>Boner is drinking red wine and dequacaine! Messy!</p>
<p>listening to "kill the wabbit"</p>
<p>Checking out all the twitter hype</p>
<p>making a twitter shirt</p>
<p>Waiting in line for Potter. Why oh why diidn't I pre-pay?</p>
<p>just dropped off nikita to her hostel</p>
<p>Thinking about TapTCP NAT traversal for kerjodando p2p</p>
<p>l_a:groups like "s.asians for obama" capitalize on affinity groups' desire for bus/soc networking:multi function event-&gt;more particip ...</p>
<p>ACS uses Second Life for virtual instance of it's annual Relay For Life fundraiser. Kudos to the ACS! - url 11 min ...</p>
<p>_a s.asians want to socialize and network, obama wants to harvest that energy.candidate-centric parties = better networking than issues.</p>
<p>-a: docs for obama, science teachers for edwards, manufacturers for clinton makes obvious sense, right?  Issues/self-interest = immediate</p>
<p>_a:ethnic&affinity groups for a candidate are just meta&fuzzier:hazy attempts @ associating social life/I_D/community with camp.Branding.</p>
<p>True, emmby, but I thinks it's an interesting topic and was hoping for others to jump in. :)</p>
<p>working at the Mindbus.nl HQ</p>
<p>wow.  this is awesome.  almost as awesome as updating drivers for an HP LasetJet 4100N.</p>
<p>what is the WHAT?</p>
<p>time to get some street meat for lunch!</p>
<p>Talking to LW</p>
<p>lazy morning</p>
<p>riding a train to KRK</p>
<p>fighting the flu  :-(</p>
<p>eye doctors appt. today! yaay. its been yeeeeeeears</p>
<p>Dr. Jonathan Perlin speaks on the importance of patient safety/quality improvement at HCA affiliate hospitals. url</p>
<p>up to 2 weeks to get my new glasses in!? wut a load of crap</p>
<p>Reading: Modern Healthcare Online (url</p>
<p>mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmdairyqueen....</p>
<p>waiting for a train to krk.</p>
<p>yaaaaaaay new glasses! im not blind anymore! :D</p>
<p>Chillen in west</p>
<p>Spending too much time on the net!</p>
<p>waking up in a very  bizarre bedroom after long train trip with horses...</p>
<p>watching the fall of many zeros</p>
<p>bleh...</p>
<p>watching house</p>
<p>hooking up QS and launchy w/twitter (maybe)</p>
<p>quicksilver plus twitter</p>
<p>Why do people exit and enter the lifts so slowly? Don't they know the other people in the lifts have better things to do than wait for them?</p>
<p>suckin' down a venti iced coffee. Sweet sweet nectar.</p>
<p>Messin' with some css. I hate Internet Explorer.</p>
<p>Seeking shade in the warm Danville sun, wondering if I'll see any more wild turkeys today.</p>
<p>It's raining :(</p>
<p>w00t, don't have TB!</p>
<p>Test</p>
<p>decisions decisions.........</p>
<p>Contemplating why the coffee is always gone.</p>
<p>Waiting for the train at harlem 125th street. sketchy sketchy.</p>
<p>The Departed:  Great movie!  Can see why it won so many Oscars.  Removing the Curse of the Bambino on HBO:  Worth watching.  Bring tissues.</p>
<p>Playing with widgets.  Macs are too cool!</p>
<p>on my way back from westchester. ddi a little grillin' and chillin' at kelly's mom's house.</p>
<p>signing up for twitter</p>
<p>Watching godzilla vs mechagodzilla</p>
<p>going to make some dinner and try to calm down after learning that some so called friends are really not</p>
<p>calming down : ]</p>
<p>After my first camping trip in years, I am so going to enjoy this shower. Feels good to have worked on a trail three times. Go Pt. Reyes!</p>
<p>Bowel movement</p>
<p>In-laws FTL!!</p>
<p>eBay have placed restrictions on my account and will only allow me to list 2 items a week. Weeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee</p>
<p>Grans in New York with you? Well whos this old lady Im taking to Bingo then? Oh god its Uncle Steve!! Ive made a terrible error</p>
<p>Off to north wales (haha, I accidentally typed NEW YORK then...), 3 days cut off from tv and internet. Shall i take my laptop?</p>
<p>DishNetwork is making me very angry.</p>
<p>damn im bored.. :(</p>
<p>Reading: New Nurses Report Significant Job Stress, Need for Better Management - UB NewsCenter (url</p>
<p>Morning after Panda Express dump.</p>
<p>Just sold my first bag! Woooohooo. Love to your mothers</p>
<p>Blogging.</p>
<p>reading a pathology book,listening music and wondering what movie is the one running on tv with muted sound..</p>
<p>sleepy.. time to change books: Stephen King(good before sleep,huh?)</p>
<p>coffee time!good morning everyone</p>
<p>247267102	bugdave	Awaiting Apple's iPod announcements.</p>
<p>Time to say goodnight,it was a long day ..I m so happy that finally I can go to bed!!</p>
<p>work! a couple of months crucial for my project  but I hope that everything will be ok ;)</p>
<p>Getting ready for work.</p>
<p>Testing twitter by fring on nokia again, suprising not to happy.</p>
<p>mmmm cheerios..</p>
<p>Thinking its about time he updated Twitter!</p>
<p>Regretting cheesecake. Tearing the ass out of me. Lactose not my friend.</p>
<p>it was not a very good day so I have a lot to do tomorrow..Im not sleepy so I ll browse the news, post something to a blog and make plans..</p>
<p>Oh why cheesecake why? You looked so good evil cake. Now metamucil.</p>
<p>Reading: "Mobile phone use in hospitals poses danger: study|Health|Reuters.com" (url</p>
<p>at home, trying out launchy</p>
<p>Flying to Atlanta in a week.. I hope that I ll have enough time to tour the CNN studios.Next-reserve a rental car for a trip to Augusta</p>
<p>Oh no!DjTiesto will be in Detroit on 13th(when I'll be in Atlanta)and on 14th he will be in Atlanta(when I m flying back to Detroit)</p>
<p>mostly wandering why none of my friends have joined yet....</p>
<p>waiting to get my hair cut by my trusty dresser luigi</p>
<p>why has nobody proven that dolphins evolved from wolves? come on you boffins</p>
<p>Looking at the earthquake monitor on my iMac.  Seems an earthquake of 4.9M happened near Ryukyu Islands Japan at 14:36 today.</p>
<p>I think tomorrow I ll go to Michigan Renaissance Festival</p>
<p>Its a beautiful day so Im thinking to spend a good part of it outdoors.first stop at Starbucks, next at MC Sports to buy a "chair in a  bag"</p>
<p>Large frapuccino. Venti is not a real word. When did I eat corn?</p>
<p>Reading: "UB Reporter: Study identifiespriorities for nurse retention" (url</p>
<p>Root canals suck.</p>
<p>they speak 3 French dialects in Louisiana.. i like that</p>
<p>Locked my keys in the boot. shit</p>
<p>Called a lock smith</p>
<p>The Big Kahuna. Short walk to sandwich island. Malama pono.</p>
<p>I need to blog. Or maybe not.</p>
<p>OK. I blogged. Now I can go to bed.</p>
<p>gather all the memories and build the safest place in your heart...\</p>
<p>want to go back to the past.. im missing a lot of things..</p>
<p>i hate being sick.... i really do.\</p>
<p>is my bestfriend tonight.</p>
<p>Still trying to decide whether Twitter adds any meaning to life...</p>
<p>Put the kids on the bus ... time to do bills ...</p>
<p>I wonder if Osama bin Laden has a blog ... seems like that would be the perfect outlet for him ... or Twitter, I guess ...</p>
<p>Reading: Community superbug a growing menace at News-Medical.Net - url</p>
<p>Leif Pettersen is from Minneapolis but travels to Europe every year.He wrote the Lonely Planet Guide for Romania.. right now he s in Romania</p>
<p>Working and ignoring my reaction to a very good friend getting fired.</p>
<p>it's like a bird that i've set free..it's gone forever. \</p>
<p>to finally let it go.\</p>
<p>back, then perhaps by that time, i ...</p>
<p>Yum left over sushi. Room temperature raw fish. Bad diarrhea.</p>
<p>Making quesadillas and quinoa for the kiddos...</p>
<p>Sorting though the nonsense, unsuccessfully.</p>
<p>Huge breakthrough.</p>
<p>Turns out it's only a vague breakthrough.</p>
<p>Everything is completely back to normal now!</p>
<p>Oh no, it's happening again: url</p>
<p>In six years, evry flight, I've always gotten selected for "random" extra searching. Today I got the airpuffer machine.</p>
<p>Rather terrified of this flight....forgot my earplugs. My poor eustacian tubes....</p>
<p>More equipment is needed to ensure progress.</p>
<p>Sourcing!</p>
<p>The new Outlook edition of Salesforce is cool. Or is it? Is software cool anymore?</p>
<p>Yes, the caesar salad I had for lunch was great, but just about anything tastes great with a kilogram of parmesean cheese shaved onto it.</p>
<p>THere is no end to the numbers.</p>
<p>It seems unlikely that any of this amounts to anything.</p>
<p>NC Double A. Corporate colonic, yes. But it left skid marks.</p>
<p>It's that time again.</p>
<p>loved Atlanta but I was stuck on their airport on my way back because of heavy rain..anyway,I didnt had enough time to enjoy the city</p>
<p>Reading: "BioMed Central | about us | Press releases" (url</p>
<p>Approaching Wloszczowa.</p>
<p>weird.</p>
<p>Setting up a WIndows machine gives you time for pause. It's like therapy.</p>
<p>Look, there, out the window what can it be? A man rubbing his nipples, stripped to the waist oiled in gee</p>
<p>Going for a run tomorrow: I've shaved my beard so I expect less air resistance and thus a more comfortable journey. when I say beard I d ...</p>
<p>I need a french press to cook my drug of choice.</p>
<p>cold compress on my wrist... :(</p>
<p>Check out the Pharmacy Residency Programs at CJW and HDH - url</p>
<p>wrist sprain= damn pain. good thing it's not on my left hand.</p>
<p>Being excited that my Freyja statue arrived.</p>
<p>Reading a news story about an irate woman who threw her six month old baby five feet at police officers  I bet I can throw farther than her.</p>
<p>Good luck with that dude. Sure it will all be fine</p>
<p>Only one thing for it....camp it up. That'll get you through</p>
<p>Works</p>
<p>olhando tv :B</p>
<p>Beautiful: url</p>
<p>Bugger..offertrax.com is an rss feed powered user generated shopping site  that tracks product prices etc and kaboodle.com is a shopping ...</p>
<p>Y!Mash..new way of social networking?we ll see..</p>
<p>VA PTs State Conference in Roanoke VA. Find out more - url</p>
<p>building out some workflows</p>
<p>Sending updates from my phone</p>
<p>Just found out that facebook api supports ruby and has a pluggin for rails. That's righ you heard now tell gran to put the kettle, tonig ...</p>
<p>I really wish fast food places delivered.</p>
<p>The secret to getting a coffee drink from Starbucks that doesn't taste like sugar milk: order it with an additional shot of espresso.</p>
<p>testing twitter</p>
<p>pfpfpf almost weekend ;-)</p>
<p>2morrow we go to bobbejaanland, i hope the weather improves</p>
<p>I think that I'm going to go buy the Roky Erickson anthology right now. Try to stop me.</p>
<p>I'm making pizza from scratch</p>
<p>Excellent meal in Kent.</p>
<p>leaving the office</p>
<p>Struggling to stay awake.</p>
<p>In the office, about to lunch</p>
<p>updating from AIM! weeee.... damn i am bored.. =/</p>
<p>tired.</p>
<p>Getting some code ready for the last day of training tomorrow...then off to ATL.</p>
<p>Sitting in traffic in ATL</p>
<p>AORN Gala coming in November. - url And Congrats to Richmond Chapter. Best in US/url</p>
<p>What a game of rugby! speachless</p>
<p>I have a special food lab...I keep it in a lunchbox at work in the fridge. The contents are hairy.</p>
<p>I always shave my food before I eat.</p>
<p>I've told you; I eat them because they allow me to see the future: on monday morning you will feel ill. Also my nickname is the furry prawn.</p>
<p>Er...when I said the furry prawn I just meant that I have a tiny hairy penis; not an aquatic pet. Sorry, I feel such a fool</p>
<p>Trying again to see if I can get Remember The Milk to work via Twitter.</p>
<p>more reading for chem....even for genetics. [amidst the distractions and constant nostalgia]</p>
<p>relaxing after the loooong and tedious chem and genetics exam. \</p>
<p>was definitely shorter than the latter. God can definitely hear.</p>
<p>will be working and draining my brain again for Theology.\</p>
<p>the Lord.. but this subject is really testing me. Stress is at its finest.</p>
<p>almost [insert word here]. I've had so many significant realizations tonight.\</p>
<p>u kidding me? but Ive been camping outside my own front door in a sleeping bag. I thought fuck harry potter or the iphone; this is hardcore</p>
<p>sitting here setting up twitter and send linkedin invites!</p>
<p>Mipcom, Cannes, France: talking about Twitter ;-)</p>
<p>Listening to Mike Volpi, Joost.</p>
<p>can't concentrate. i need a breather.</p>
<p>Whenever you go to play basketball I imagine your playin against those cartoon monsters in that film with michael jordan and bugs bunny</p>
<p>this and that</p>
<p>just signed up for twitter..</p>
<p>Trying to update from my phone.</p>
<p>Twitter is really cool... Watching the show American Choppers.</p>
<p>first day of eid .. feels good</p>
<p>Looking to buy a game called Shut the Box.</p>
<p>will be composing a new song.. but have to finish the shirt designs ASAP.</p>
<p>Sitting at Starbucks @ Anderson Lane</p>
<p>Planning to take a step forward. I hope everything turns right for everyone.</p>
<p>my 5 year old brother seems to enjoy Sami Yusuf's songs more than I do :)</p>
<p>Starting to rain at the begining of the 2nd quarter. Rebels 3 BYU 0.</p>
<p>Just dropped sheree off at hospital. Been told to ring at lunchtime....erm...probably just hang around</p>
<p>My tally for today so far: 1 x filter coffee, 1 x espresso, 1 x latte... Its only 9.30</p>
<p>I feel high on haribo...and a little sick</p>
<p>John Randolph Medical Center is hosting a RN invitational. Lots of changes occurring at JRMC - url</p>
<p>Watching the Bulls vs Wizards preseason game.</p>
<p>getting back work spirit after a holiday isn't easy. god bless facebook :p</p>
<p>Cutting my hair...</p>
<p>Browsing through my feeds</p>
<p>Buying several screwdrivers in case one gets stuck in a skull.</p>
<p>Why do I always end up at the checkstand where the clerk is insanely slow?</p>
<p>I've finally finished 20 episodes of Heroes and i must say, there have been strange reasons why i'm nostalgic once again..</p>
<p>will be leaving in 2 hours for the ASLA meeting. Another busy day.</p>
<p>got my life back (aka, internet working again)!</p>
<p>Just left the casino on my way to Cali for my son football game.</p>
<p>At IKEA in West Covina, CA getting a bookcase.</p>
<p>Me and arthur are just about to enter the west mid safari park...I'm gonna bomb it round</p>
<p>Where are the f-ing tigers?</p>
<p>Cant quite get over how many young couples there are without any kids going around in their cars. Is this what the kids are doing these days</p>
<p>The lions look depressed</p>
<p>Oh my god a rhino</p>
<p>Uh oh...fuel light came on</p>
<p>Reptile house rocks!</p>
<p>Were in a rugby world cup final! Your country needs you. This is no time for code/locating gran.</p>
<p>Jason robinson has just ended his international career. A moments silence please</p>
<p>you get the best feeling in the world when you cross major things off your to do list</p>
<p>Wishing the AC at work would stop pumping cold air in my face all day long. Management doesn't seem to bother with my complaints!</p>
<p>Checking my latest photos on Flickr.</p>
<p>Gah Nick Hornby is here and I have no camera!</p>
<p>Cellebrating.</p>
<p>Adding a comment to Alan Levine's Cogdogroo.</p>
<p>will have to how to multi-tasks over th e coming few weeks. A strom of tasks is coming my way!</p>
<p>Updating my Facebook, finding friends and general browsing</p>
<p>Hi Al, Checking tweets now I;ve added some friends. Finally got into it after Alan Levine's visit to Adelaide. Vonnie (SouthOz)</p>
<p>best episode of 2007! -&gt; Armin Van Buuren - A State of Trance 322</p>
<p>Taking a few minutes out of app writing - chore! Tweets will be pretty sparse for a while.</p>
<p>Thinking about a presentation to a group of secondary Tourism teachers next week - including ideas for using Web2.0 tools in the classroom.</p>
<p>The blood flow is heavy</p>
<p>Facebook's valued at 15 billion and only makes ~150 million a year. Are we heading for another bubble?</p>
<p>Yours truly here is utterly impressed by the guided video tour of the new Mac Leapord. Simply jaw dropping!</p>
<p>Just about to have a cup-ha-soup for lunch. putrid</p>
<p>Just put the f-ing kettle on and thought to myself 'this taking a whil only to realise some sadistic idiot has unplugged it</p>
<p>A simple comment on lifehacker brings in loads of visitors. Sweet :)</p>
<p>Damn forgot my camera at halloween dance i'm chaperming.</p>
<p>back from the ASLA 6 Congress. :) Good job ASLA CORE!</p>
<p>I'm gonna need to step up the career game if I ever want to achieve a world-class usability expertise. Must find out how.</p>
<p>Watching lord of the rings with me boy</p>
<p>Baking brownies.</p>
<p>studying edic</p>
<p>Graphic Advertising and Marketing.  Small business advertising</p>
<p>went on a shopping spree today.. project makeover in motion :)</p>
<p>I'm dressed as the PHB from Dilbert, since my company has a special Halloween potluck today. got2b's super mega hairpsray was a big help.</p>
<p>Pensando no Frank Baby (L)</p>
<p>researching for the project</p>
<p>Web 2.0 stelde niks voor, maar Web 3.0 is het wel!</p>
<p>Cleaned out my closet. Now how do I get rid of all those 80's pants and t-shirts?</p>
<p>Trying out Flock .. not bad so far!</p>
<p>Studying</p>
<p>had a great time out with the guys.. talked about life, career, relationships. some very deep shit :)</p>
<p>Having a strange appetite for work today.</p>
<p>Writing songs.x</p>
<p>spinning twitter</p>
<p>Signing up for twitter</p>
<p>practicing on the guitar</p>
<p>adding twitter to my facebook</p>
<p>watching TV, making dinner...</p>
<p>"Generations In the Workplace": A Special Talk for OR Nurses at Retreat Hospital. url</p>
<p>Setting down to write a bunch of posts for the next two weeks. Every-other-day posting frequency seems to suit me pretty well.</p>
<p>Getting ready for some racketball! and packing for my trip to Belize.</p>
<p>enjoying my new garden pond. doublechecking the timer for the submerged light is working properly</p>
<p>Watching a jay-z interview I tivoed...</p>
<p>heck of a day. drinking a little red wine. doin' some surfin'</p>
<p>Watching the CNBC video of David Lear.  Good job Sean!</p>
<p>and now... off to Belize!</p>
<p>finished watching realtime with bill maher. he had to physically remove some hecklers from audience. -- now that's live tv</p>
<p>organizing home office ....</p>
<p>working on web page</p>
<p>adding more emitters and line to our drip irrigation.</p>
<p>cooking dinner --</p>
<p>getting ready for bed</p>
<p>the company's sending me off next week for a two-day course on how to build confidence and shit. Does anybody think I need more of that?</p>
<p>feeding dogs. watering plants outside & in.</p>
<p>breakfast. then back to the yard. raking more irrigation system stuff.</p>
<p>Coming back to reality.</p>
<p>Church audio</p>
<p>just finished planting some perennials. including purple fountain grass as a backdrop for our new garden pond</p>
<p>booking flight to san fran for new tevee conference</p>
<p>Heading to bed!</p>
<p>Working in the pasture</p>
<p>working, coding, making phone calls</p>
<p>I just discovered twitter!</p>
<p>Sitting and relaxing in the place in Belize!</p>
<p>going home...</p>
<p>Watching TV & working on new web page</p>
<p>I am currently away from the computer.</p>
<p>Gave a dynamite presentation at work yesterday for 70+ people. Only problem was, I had to do in two languages at the same time! Imagine  ...</p>
<p>Gave a dynamite presentation at work yesterday for 70+ people. Had to do in 2 languages at the same time, how awkward that was!</p>
<p>Breakfast, then work on the guest house in Belize! :)</p>
<p>fed dogs, hand-watered new perennials, been to gym, and now at work</p>
<p>-- we must be on the same sched, as I was just remarking about how handy a hammock would be about now.</p>
<p>hand watered new perennials. Fed dogs. Crated dogs, as somebody is working in our hourse today. Went to gym.</p>
<p>smoothie for breakfast</p>
<p>now at work, checking email</p>
<p>---plenty long -- depending on the individual, i've been know to come to a conclustion in 30 minutes in a similar scenario</p>
<p>I am currently away from the computer.</p>
<p>Do pijacych w Pozytywce: na zdrowie!</p>
<p>the continuing misnomer of "above the fold". I actually know one designer who designed a picket sign stating "There is No Fold"</p>
<p>going out to water new perennials, and then off to gym.</p>
<p>going to miami. Gonna eat a pork sandwich.</p>
<p>sitting intraffic. gonna miss my flight. this is crap.</p>
<p>Working on web page</p>
<p>I am currently away from the computer.</p>
<p>Sleeping</p>
<p>Awaiting armaggedon</p>
<p>brunch on south beach. Bloody mary baby.</p>
<p>you have a fake wife, too?</p>
<p>finished working on the house in Belize.  Now off to dinner.</p>
<p>at the maxim hometown hottie party in miami.</p>
<p>i am loving this sem.... although there are still "issues" left hanging.</p>
<p>sitting drinking starbucks watching my girlfriend shoot the hometown hotties winner. I must have done something right.</p>
<p>I am currently away from the computer.</p>
<p>checked on new fish in garden pond -- all is well</p>
<p>Working on web page</p>
<p>Sleeping</p>
<p>watching my Michael Jordan come fly with me dvd at 2am in the morning... boy was he great.</p>
<p>Going to church</p>
<p>thanks for following me</p>
<p>I yell this is sparta when i'm alone fighting urban traffic</p>
<p>thanks for following me</p>
<p>removed leaves from garden pond, harvested some lettuce, repotting cactus</p>
<p>Watching TV, working on Christmas Video</p>
<p>Home from Belize.  Watching TV and not thinking about going back to work.</p>
<p>Thinkig combination. Things are not as simple as they appear.</p>
<p>In the office</p>
<p>14 rollingstone.com wireframes by EOD tomorrow. Kill me now.</p>
<p>-- um, url doesn't seem to work....</p>
<p>Chipotle....feeling..sluggish....zzzzzzzzzzzz</p>
<p>pooped, in recliner watching Chuck then off to bed!</p>
<p>just got back from gym.</p>
<p>reporting a phishing email targeting customers of etrade</p>
<p>Coo!</p>
<p>o/~ Going to NJ, gonna eat a lotta turkey, going to NJ...</p>
<p>Ya-ha! I finally got Remember The Milk to work via the new "block" feature.</p>
<p>Gooooool!</p>
<p>Watching TV, working on FBC Christmas stuff.  Thank God it's raining (we are in severe drought)!!!</p>
<p>Stuck in traffic....zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz. I could just end it all now...</p>
<p>turkey in the oven, making giblet gravy</p>
<p>Watching football...</p>
<p>org chem problems can be fun :)</p>
<p>Yes, congrats on house. Fires are the least of your worries...theres burglaries, spiralling interest rates and domestic violence to think of</p>
<p>Errrrr.... They keep playing track 6 (the shit one) from radiohead album on radio</p>
<p>Just finished watching Yanni Live! concert and I gotta say: He's the only musician who's concert music is better than his studio music!</p>
<p>enjoying outdoor fire pit -- it's actually cold enough for a fire outside in Austin.</p>
<p>collecting left-over turkey recipes -- mmm turkey chili relenos</p>
<p>-- actually tonite, we're having leftover chili from infamous chili cookoff in october -- be here at 6:30pm -- we have plenty ;)</p>
<p>Been offered 500 quid for wii? What do I do?</p>
<p>...what will the kids think of me though?</p>
<p>Grilling turkey on the grill and watching football!</p>
<p>And posting pictures on Flickr: www.flickr.com/photos/gold41</p>
<p>Watching my celtics vs the bobcats.</p>
<p>kelly's high school reunion.  if one more person mistakes me for someone they went to school with I'm outta here.</p>
<p>Going to office!</p>
<p>just adopted a bunch of extinct animals from the WWF for holiday gifts including a three toed sloth</p>
<p>hugs!</p>
<p>Hotels without WiFi are all too disturbingly common. Worse is the hotel advertising WiFi where it turns out to be $15.</p>
<p>spinning with Celeb DJ Michelle Pesce url</p>
<p>: That is some website craig. I don't know what you needed me for.</p>
<p>Pumkin muffin. Christmas blend.</p>
<p>feeding dogs, feeding fish in aquarium, checking on fish in garden pond</p>
<p>why oh why would anyone use Comic Sans on their signage? It imediately discredits your business.</p>
<p>setting down to write my annual gigantic birthday post. I'm 25 next Sunday :)</p>
<p>Watching Passenger57 ^.^</p>
<p>posted a new video shopping with Kate Moennig from the L Word.url</p>
<p>Back from EPEAT BofA meeting in SF and can't sleep</p>
<p>I'm officially 25! yaay :)</p>
<p>Internet stalking freaks me out sometimes. Especially when I'm the stalker.</p>
<p>baking cookies and pound cake so I can send to my parents for Christmas.</p>
<p>The Dolphins stink so badly they even make the Jets look good.  Sigh.  First pick in the draft will be... Tim Tebow?</p>
<p>CJW Medical Center is Richmond VA is opening 14-bed progressive care unit featuring the eICU system. Read more... url</p>
<p>Revelation: quitting a company is the ultimate motivation to get things done!</p>
<p>Trying out Carrot2 (Open Source Search Results Clustering Engine) like Clusty (ex Vivisimo)/</p>
<p>today's philo discussion was very inspiring. it takes experience to understand a phenomenology of the topic :)</p>
<p>Is There a "Nursing Degree Inflation"? Read this story at the American Chronicle. url</p>
<p>EPEAT...Platinum?  Who the heck made that up?</p>
<p>Best smooth jazz I've ever heard: Chris Botti</p>
<p>Researching marketers' thoughts about integrated communications/media platforms.</p>
<p>Nursing Program Enrollment Slows Despite Nursing Shortage - url</p>
<p>I just remembered I could charge my SE K750i with the USB cable. No need to go out and buy a new charger for the old broken one. Me happy :)</p>
<p>Off today, burning up both vacation days and money shopping!</p>
<p>studyin consys :(</p>
<p>That.S AWESOME!</p>
<p>received new office furniture, organizing home office -- akin to simple drudgery.  why is it i hate going thru everything i own.</p>
<p>Just finished compiling a huge playlist of over 110+ hours (1000+ songs) worth of relaxing and chillout music</p>
<p>new song! just send me a message if you want a copy :)</p>
<p>wrapping presents like a madwoman</p>
<p>and the film control is awesome</p>
<p>Every day is one day closer to freedom!</p>
<p>Going to the zoo hoping not to get wet.</p>
<p>Been a while since my last blog post. I think I will write dozen of 'em in Eid holiday and schedule them over the coming month(s)</p>
<p>Rory Edelman, the designer of Rory Beca is cool</p>
<p>relaxing after Racquetball by watching the scintillating Monday Night Football Game. :)</p>
<p>showing my husband facebook about to watch kite runner</p>
<p>recommendation letters are due</p>
<p>If u see someone running like crazy to a shared office printer, then know this person is looking for another job coz he just printed his CV!</p>
<p>Finished outlining my new year resolutions. Now I'm gonna plan 'em in details.</p>
<p>cooking up something to warm the innards!</p>
<p>Debating whether I want to get a dog...travel a bit...don't want it to be lonely...</p>
<p>happy birthday. :)\</p>
<p>been a long time, really.</p>
<p>"All love shifts and changes. I don't know if you can be wholeheartedly in love all the time." Julie Andrews</p>
<p>Dr Jonathan Perlin, CMO and VP of Quality for HCA, discusses MRSA at APIC Meeting - url</p>
<p>Reading about Warren Buffet...interesting guy...I like him.</p>
<p>I can't find my hellyeahdude coaster?</p>
<p>Installed Firefox 3 beta.. super fast and pretty! Plus, now not so much a memory-whore.</p>
<p>Studying for a Commercial Law Final</p>
<p>Maybe studying AND drinking bourbon</p>
<p>I'm sleeping...briefly</p>
<p>Got a freelance job designing a flyer. Been long time since I brushed up on my design skills.</p>
<p>Currently dreading having to take this final</p>
<p>Anyone else think Huckabee looks like Kevin Spacey?</p>
<p>watching soprano on url</p>
<p>ready for a nice weekend!</p>
<p>Is about to go to Junior Prom.  AKA Molly's Office Christmas Party</p>
<p>Feist... one two three...</p>
<p>2 weeks to go before new year/job</p>
<p>Studying for my last exam.</p>
<p>Listening to Armin Van Buuren's A State of Trance 2007 Year Mix .. some fine trance music I tell ya!</p>
<p>Twenty years from now you will be more disappointed by the things that you didnt do than by the ones you did do. So throw off the bowli ...</p>
<p>huh what?</p>
<p>going to the eco gift fair in santa monica</p>
<p>going to fido to escape the unreliable pirated wifi in my apartment</p>
<p>reading the script of "The Diving Bell and the Butterfly"</p>
<p>Editing photographs of the Texas Capitol in Photomatix and Photoshop before sending them off to the printer!</p>
<p>scrambling to find a buddy with wheels to pick up a matress i bought from a guy on craigslist</p>
<p>counting my beans.</p>
<p>at work reading Kelley's "The Art of Innovation" and trying out twitter for the first time!</p>
<p>Is reading a book</p>
<p>Finished with Semester 5 of law school</p>
<p>I've just decided that we don't listen to enough reggae at work (like augusto pablo)...also checkout secret language and a track called  ...</p>
<p>Reston Hospital Center awarded Magnet Status today. Read more about this outstanding achievement here - url</p>
<p>super sick, i hate colds, spinning on stylehive.com tomorrow. love that site!</p>
<p>mac keyboard fix! url</p>
<p>Looking for a career opportunity at a Magnet Hospital? Find what you've been looking for at Reston Hospital Center - url</p>
<p>ordered a flip video cam for my parents for Christmas... I sure wish it had card storage since they travel -- but it's great otherwise</p>
<p>changed my mind and ordered a wifi picture frame for my parents at thinkgeek.com. I can SMS or email pics to it!</p>
<p>great read. interesting thesis: interaction design is a crutch. url</p>
<p>I love this guys website: url</p>
<p>Is reading a book!</p>
<p>Packed and heading out to Virginia</p>
<p>"getting lifted" on chablis and apple cider</p>
<p>"Hudsucker" is one of those funny words, like "weasel" or "chainsaw".</p>
<p>Celebrate the Yuletide Season! Merry Christmas :)</p>
<p>Target: choinka. Status: prepare to destroy. ;-)</p>
<p>Everything about Christmas is expensive.</p>
<p>Crying out to all Nashvillians in desperation for the kindness of a stanger with a pickup truck or other such means of transpo...</p>
<p>reflecting on how psychotic I may have appeared a few hours ago.</p>
<p>Johnny Lee's great wiimote projects: url ... headtracking and multipoint</p>
<p>Browsing stumble upon and adding the new Christmas comic to digg.</p>
<p>By comic I mean url</p>
<p>having myself a merry little christmahannakwanzaa, hoping that you are as well...</p>
<p>mapquest directions to my house are pretty messed up after all the construction work... my mom is lost.</p>
<p>Fat implanting.</p>
<p>investigating broadband speeds url</p>
<p>Great news coming soon :)</p>
<p>I hate having to explain to users what "default" means. Any one got another word for it?</p>
<p>Trying to learn facebook...</p>
<p>waiting at the metro to get my phone which I left in my Mom's cousin's car. this would be a good place for wifi!</p>
<p>a hot technology to watch: ebook readers. sounds strange... but e-ink, wireless, low power, price, torrents... are a powerful combination.</p>
<p>killer gadget idea - GPS with an easily accessible SD card slot for geophoto tagging of camera data. Garmin?</p>
<p>Home from cold and rainy Williamsburg</p>
<p>Im on antibiotics...again. No gin for 7 days</p>
<p>adding new T-shirts to my www,onlinechristianshopper.com web store</p>
<p>can't believe I keep typing commas for dots...updating my www.onlinechristianshopper.com Christian T-Shirt store</p>
<p>Retweet: Thomas Smith, MA, RN, CPHQ, of Henrico Doctors' elected President of the NAHQ! Congrats to Thom! Read more here url</p>
<p>10 years of intimate computer relationships, and feels like i'm a monkey on a piano trying to learn this damn mac i've just switched to</p>
<p>Life without goals is like driving in an unfamiliar city without a roadmap.</p>
<p>i hate humans</p>
<p>Finally moving away from AceMoney to Microsoft Money. Semi-manual switch but ultimately worth it!</p>
<p>Starting to follow Ron Z :-) Watching the Patriots game looking for my old childhood friend.</p>
<p>Watching Sherk.</p>
<p>Getting bored watching shrek.</p>
<p>About to go get coffee.</p>
<p>So, the Pats are 16-0.  Do we need to watch more football today?</p>
<p>cleaning</p>
<p>full day out in the muddy, sloppy freezing rain doing disaster training... home again at last!</p>
<p>Browsing: Christine Vachon - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia url</p>
<p>Browsing: Dirty Laundry (2007) url</p>
<p>writing a business plan, under the defining sound of god/dess laughing uproariously</p>
<p>Reading: The Long Tail: Are dead-tree magazines good or bad for the climate? url</p>
<p>the midatlanticdogs.org website transitions at midnight tonight... what a thing to work on new years' eve</p>
<p>Cleaning up the house and packing up the Christmas stuff.</p>
<p>just added christian shoes to my store url</p>
<p>Playing Scrabulous (Hi LPT!) and IMing with folks.</p>
<p>Testing command-line twitter. Command-lines are our friends.</p>
<p>Eating lunch at a pc because the lunch room is full of noobz.</p>
<p>work, work, work :-)</p>
<p>one more thing, Garmin... if I could have my GPS tracks sent wirelessly to my email account, I'd keep better logs. Cellphone apps can do ...</p>
<p>Reading: Facebook Ads Make You the Star -- And You May Not Know It | Epicenter from Wired.com url</p>
<p>today's the last day of this job. yipeeeeee</p>
<p>new to twitter, just going to have a look around and see what its about!</p>
<p>It's over. I'm a free man!</p>
<p>after updating to firefox 3 beta 2 this post just made my day url</p>
<p>I was right... Garmin's latest device is sporting wireless transfer to the PC and other devices...check out the 405 url ...</p>
<p>ack. shortened! url</p>
<p>www.last.fm is a really good idea</p>
<p>Worst drive I've ever had.</p>
<p>Sanjay is twittering on gtalk on bb</p>
<p>Reading: ProHipHop: Hip Hop Business: Season 4: When The Wire's Realness Stumbled url</p>
<p>is re-learning cooking skills</p>
<p>First day at the new job.</p>
<p>Working on wedding video and web page while watching TV.</p>
<p>Going to the one party I go to every year... my SAR unit's holiday party.</p>
<p>Testing Vista twitter gadget.. it's so bulky!</p>
<p>Either I'm sick, or RSpec-installed as plugin into my rails app simply disappeared from it, damn motherfucker. There's 50% chance of either.</p>
<p>Making dinner, watching football and waited to see if anyone makes scrabulous moves</p>
<p>Reading up on lightroom. I ordered it a few days ago.</p>
<p>Reading: Wired News - AP News url</p>
<p>getting Twitter sorted!!!</p>
<p>Sending greeting cards from url</p>
<p>Reading: BitTorrent, Uncensoring Independent Filmmakers | TorrentFreak url</p>
<p>Watching Janet Jackson new video.</p>
<p>HEY HO LET'S GO!</p>
<p>Reading: Filmmaker Magazine: Blog url</p>
<p>Launching Awards season microsite and it's in bad shape. This is going to be a multi-venti coffee day.</p>
<p>ATB does it again with ATB The DJ 4: In the Mix. Solid trance music!</p>
<p>finishing reading Skulduggery Pleasant</p>
<p>has found out how to VNC securely url</p>
<p>found a video that has made his morning, gizmodo man armed with a tv-turner offer, classic url</p>
<p>Just done my premarital genetic screening test. Results in 12 days.</p>
<p>is watching the new mp4-23 launch url</p>
<p>is learning svn url url url</p>
<p>: welcome back. How 'bout them Giants?</p>
<p>Why does Indiana Jones have a whip as part of his essential arsenal?</p>
<p>I'm spending the GDP of Rwanda on books</p>
<p>Pulaski recognized by VHQC for excellence in treating congestive heart failure. - url</p>
<p>Spent 5 hours yesterday whipping my music collection into shape. Now if I only could get album arts automatically downloaded. Anyone kno ...</p>
<p>Somebody just got fired today. I think it's the first time I witness such thing. Very aweful!</p>
<p>A Red Bull followed by a Jones 24c are the perfect breakfast for a day at work.</p>
<p>My haven of clean grammar and properly answered emails has been made a warzone of typos and mistakes by incompetent agents.</p>
<p>woke up at at 0730... problem is that I'm on the West Coast and it's really 0430.</p>
<p>I'm furious that the iPod died when Pink Floyd was playing.</p>
<p>Watching bad horror and sci-fi so you don't have to.</p>
<p>congrats met Thecrowds.Crowdsourcing branche wordt gezellig.Let a 1000 flowers bloom!(we gaan wel graag "crowds" Google fight aan;-)</p>
<p>Totally agree...This is going to change the world! Crowds rule!</p>
<p>coming back from San Diego to snow.... fingers crossed that we don't get stuck somewhere. No other flights available.</p>
<p>Working@a Cafe to Arcade Fire String Quartet tribute to Funeral: weirdly productive. Points for amazon.</p>
<p>finally in utah.</p>
<p>Why do I only want to sleep at innapropriate times?</p>
<p>Watched The Secret last night. I totally bought the concept. I'm gonna read more into it.</p>
<p>skating</p>
<p>Bought an awesome suit last night for my engagement party next month</p>
<p>Installing the new version of my all-time fav photo editing app: PhotoImpact X3</p>
<p>has arrived in Palo Alto</p>
<p>surfing the world wide web!</p>
<p>still surfing and chatting</p>
<p>finally bought an iPhone . . . Geez, why did I wait?</p>
<p>MS Licensing Essentials: this just had to be the most boring training sessions I'm ever going to attend this year. No wait a min, all time!</p>
<p>Working on a UPA conference poster. Or two...</p>
<p>working on affiliate program of www.tradekey.com</p>
<p>Finished installing Mozilla Prism with all my fav webapps: gmail, calendar, notebook, Facebook, Twitter, Todoist</p>
<p>Signing up for twitter.</p>
<p>This is my first post on twitter, and I am experimenting...</p>
<p>Welcome to orate fratres on 01.21.08!</p>
<p>blessed march in Grants Pass yesterday. The sun broke through in many ways. Check the pics..</p>
<p>Sweating.</p>
<p>Reading: Sundance Interview: 'Ballast' Director Lance Hammer - Blogging Sundance url</p>
<p>Bad movie alert: "The Ten"</p>
<p>Watching all my tivoed shows I missed last week.</p>
<p>Good day from fratres this 01.22.08! There can be no quarter given in the defense of the little ones...See "Response to Call for Civility"..</p>
<p>2nd day on new job.  1st day of 3 day training. Fun stuff. Lots of configuration for these ecrm products.</p>
<p>new song again: Walk or stay. another collaboration with budding lyricist Joy. :) Jamming on Thursday albeit the really toxic sked. :)</p>
<p>In Dallas area after first day on the new job.  All is well!</p>
<p>Happy Wednesday 01.23.08 Find out where pro abort Catholic pols go to confess on the blog news... Have the best day possible!!! James.</p>
<p>Frankfort Regional Medical Center did it again! - url</p>
<p>LOST, the video game: coming out late Feb. Can't wait!</p>
<p>The ultimate risk is living your life in such a way that when you come to lie on your deathbed you will have cause for regret.</p>
<p>01..24.08 Good Day!!! See Pope Benedict's plea for Christian unity... Have the best day possible. James</p>
<p>I'm determined to leave work on time today so I can finally do my laundry.</p>
<p>is working.  What else?</p>
<p>is procrastinating.</p>
<p>reading the screenplay for "Atonement"</p>
<p>Took my fianc to do her premarital blood test today.</p>
<p>Is driving home</p>
<p>Been listening all day to 2 amazing songs by Matt White: Best Days and Love. Check 'em out!</p>
<p>Microsoft Expression Web is the most stupid untested application MS has ever released. Just try it for a real website and see what I mean.</p>
<p>The office is a f***ing freazer. I'm turning into an ice cream.</p>
<p>talking to Ian about twitter :0o</p>
<p>My coffee tastes like cigarettes.</p>
<p>I am now watching a DVD</p>
<p>finishing a pulled pork sandwich</p>
<p>The path to peace is Christ....Check out the blog news for Tuesday 01.29.08</p>
<p>great day!!!</p>
<p>See you in Rome next Summer? A new proposal calling for an global moratorium on abortion gains ground in Europe! See the post...</p>
<p>Nihili est - in vita priore ego imperator romanus fui</p>
<p>What do think about gay/straight alliances on Catholic campuses? Do they help or hinder the mission of the Church? See: Sheep Circles pos...</p>
<p>, @cleshen, everything went well. Good people! Probably have to go back to meet a few more.</p>
<p>the band is just fantastic- that is really what i think</p>
<p>Next Thursday is my official engagement party.</p>
<p>Neo is learning how to do froggy legs in the pool</p>
<p>Waiting for Alvin and the Chipmunks</p>
<p>Just booked 3 shows for the end of March</p>
<p>Just finished taking a marathon weekend ham radio class for my license. Whew!</p>
<p>Working on Ga Mtn Passion Play projection project</p>
<p>sorting through technical data at work. actually interesting stuff re dns and email security</p>
<p>, @cleshen: $470 to Vegas, huh? Maybe we should make it a roadtrip.</p>
<p>Reading the screenplay of "Away From Her"</p>
<p>I'm playing with widgets on social networking sites. Apparently, I can't input widget code into the update section. Not a big surprise.</p>
<p>Been in traffic for an hour now</p>
<p>jorja fox tells spindaily.com about the play she is producing on dusty springfield</p>
<p>going to vote</p>
<p>WATCHING THE RESULTS</p>
<p>Man i hope to god that Hillary does not win Tennessee. Go Huckabee!!</p>
<p>Decided to start work on my accounts project.</p>
<p>I've been persuaded microblogging has some utility.</p>
<p>emotes.</p>
<p>Tomorrow is the first day for the rest of my life. (I've always wanted to say that and now I can!)</p>
<p>terrible day. lost my cellphone, woke up late, lost my pen, feel tired, at least the ipod charger works :)</p>
<p>it's 5AM, and the ibook has just made it out of surgery. i've made this entry on it. the light flickered once, but seems to be fine.</p>
<p>A conversation with Nils considers applications of proof-of-work to individual privacy.</p>
<p>The whole state is in traffic jam</p>
<p>Sourcing for Talent!</p>
<p>Mistical, Diallo and THEROCK878 are playing CoD4.</p>
<p>Test from Quicksilver</p>
<p>I'm officially married! Sorry girls, this pretty face's off the market :)</p>
<p>Just sitting in the front of the apple store</p>
<p>Eating at zippys</p>
<p>What a great days at Lift Conference in Geneva....Still full of energy & inspiration..!</p>
<p>is full of cold. Bleugh.</p>
<p>What would a facebook app called "Batphone" do?</p>
<p>My new official favorite quote: "The book of life is brief and once a page is read all but love is dead." Comes from Don McLean song "An ...</p>
<p>wondering what I should do with this twitter thing... looks interesting as it works seamlessly with iphone and all...</p>
<p>Mistical, Diallo, THEROCK878, Rathman44, Hendrix6406, MICKEY3 and 2 other friends are playing CoD4.</p>
<p>TV strike is over. Yeah!</p>
<p>usual day @ office. :)</p>
<p>Watching jesse on all my children.</p>
<p>Great news for HCA employees! Read about changes to their 401(k) - url</p>
<p>enterprise -- i typically think of enterprise it architecture, and business optimization, performance mgmt, and process</p>
<p>Great article: Practical guide to controlled experiments on the web: listen to your customers not to the hippo.url</p>
<p>Hmm. resending url: url</p>
<p>Neo got 2 chicks from school</p>
<p>Mistical, Diallo, Rathman44, Hendrix6406, MICKEY3 and another buddy are playing CoD4.</p>
<p>Posted 'Stay Forever Dusty' to blip.tv: url</p>
<p>Posted 'Iconic Jewelry' to blip.tv: url</p>
<p>burger and movie. Now that's my kind of valentine's day!</p>
<p>Mistical, Diallo, Rathman44 and Hendrix6406 are playing CoD4.</p>
<p>Just had some li hing mixed arare</p>
<p>Signing up on Twitter</p>
<p>It's here... I was so impatient!!!</p>
<p>Watching TV and working on Passion Play Graphics.</p>
<p>Neo swam in 8 ft today</p>
<p>Sitting in bed working on my finances</p>
<p>Starbucks $2.00 wallet Tag:Meals</p>
<p>woot is back up -- offering a Wireless Digital Picture Frame</p>
<p>Posted 'Designer Profile with Kelly Nishimoto' to blip.tv: url</p>
<p>Interesting open source news site: url</p>
<p>Neo and I just practiced swimming at rec 1</p>
<p>Mistical, Diallo, Rathman44, Hendrix6406, MICKEY3 and iLBrYnEeLiTeEe are playing CoD4.</p>
<p>feeling the burn after getting over zealous on the yardwork-- bring on the Spring!</p>
<p>: i mean really, can you blame him?</p>
<p>CJW ED Directors speak! Check it out. url</p>
<p>LSU English prof just said 'old fuck' on NPR during anti-Castro rant!</p>
<p>Loving the iPray Christian shirt at url  Gotta get me one!</p>
<p>Posted 'A Soldier's Wishlist' to blip.tv: url</p>
<p>8C AND SUNNY IN EDMONTON IS THE FORCAST FOR TODAY</p>
<p>Wilkinson veut il une paire de boucles d'oreilles ?</p>
<p>sleeping</p>
<p>Officially married today!</p>
<p>Going Green on the Economy | Biofuels url</p>
<p>Posted 'Independent Spirit Awards: Red Carpet Style' to blip.tv: url</p>
<p>Mistical, Rathman44, THEROCK878, Hendrix6406, MICKEY3 and iLBrYnEeLiTeEe are playing CoD4.</p>
<p>I finally went to church.</p>
<p>Back from Italy! Trying to recover from jet lag and illness. And work is hard to get my head into.</p>
<p>Trying out the Adobe Air twhirl twitter client.</p>
<p>Mistical, Diallo, Rathman44, THEROCK878, beebs32 and MICKEY3 are playing CoD4.</p>
<p>Trying to get SharePoint and Exchange to sleep together. They're were on a break!</p>
<p>building a site at www.xtensiv.net.. duh!</p>
<p>Cool Prince Caspian Narnia movie Christian T-Shirt at url</p>
<p>Will I go to url I cannot decide.</p>
<p>Today is my last day of swimming class</p>
<p>I swam 50 ft today with 3 breaths</p>
<p>recovering from a 4 hour training & discussion</p>
<p>interesting articles on social graphs here: url</p>
<p>Geothermal Energy Needs a BIG Boost | Geothermal Energy url</p>
<p>Darn! It's nuts to start training at 8Am on Sunday during the winter!</p>
<p>Voiceless chaperoning requires a lot of undignified & ambiguous miming. 'laryngitis' looks like a decapitation threat.</p>
<p>Working</p>
<p>Update Twitter</p>
<p>Delicate & Reset Group present Answer @ Club 808 RCA: </p>
<p>Visua.. url</p>
<p>Welcome to the Ch'tis... a super movie!</p>
<p>really have to mention: great blogpost from my CreativeCrowdsColleague Stijn about online marketing 3.0 url</p>
<p>I need some creative motivation for this new email!  I gotta step it up now that my boss is gone!</p>
<p>: how serendipitous ;)</p>
<p>Mistical, Diallo, Rathman44, THEROCK878, KGCUBS10 and hendrix6406 are playing CoD4.</p>
<p>In the Office, catching up</p>
<p>Cindy Glover Talks Magnet! See 1 of 3 part interview. url</p>
<p>I'm crossing something off my bucket list soon. Feels good!</p>
<p>I'm so busy it hurts. Oh wait, that's just hunger.</p>
<p>2 much snow, 2 much sleet, make for a long trip home</p>
<p>Mistical, Diallo, Rathman44, THEROCK878 and KGCUBS10 are playing CoD4. Hendrix6406 and iLlByRnEeLiTeEe left for the night.</p>
<p>I'm working for NASA</p>
<p>The latest eNewsletter is out - url</p>
<p>blog spotting</p>
<p>Posted 'Stephanie Johnson's Cosmetic + Travel Bags' to blip.tv: url</p>
<p>Posted 'Snaek Peek: Element Eden's Summer Collection' to blip.tv: url</p>
<p>Trying not to fail the MPRE.</p>
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<cesDoc xmlns="http://www.xces.org/schema/2003" version="1.0.4">
<text>
<body>

<p>should be updating his CV.</p>
<p>Drawing something new.</p>
<p>qedwiki by ibm looks really interesting...url</p>
<p>Mistical, THEROCK878 and beebs32 are playing CoD4.</p>
<p>Review: Speakerphone ??? Audio Ease: Review: Speakerphone ????????????????????????????????????????? .. url</p>
<p>Learning the art of story-telling...</p>
<p>Still working on video and graphics for the Ga Mtn. Passion Play in every spare minute.</p>
<p>blowing here, blowing there</p>
<p>Just saw 3 episodes of Download: The Story of the internet on the Science channel.</p>
<p>Mistical, THEROCK878 and KBCUBS10 are playing CoD4.</p>
<p>Winding down for bed</p>
<p>Green tea, ginseng, red bull, sudafed-still tired.</p>
<p>Posted 'Los Angeles Runway: Imasu by Kelly Nishimoto' to blip.tv: url</p>
<p>Zooey passed her cadaver test. It's nice having another operational dog!</p>
<p>checking out Twitter...finally.</p>
<p>reading some blogs</p>
<p>Mistical and THEROCK878 are playing CoD4.</p>
<p>it's about creativity.: </p>
<p>Mistical, THEROCK878 and iLBrYnEeLiTeEe are playing CoD4.</p>
<p>Mistical and THEROCK878 are playing CoD4. KGCUBS10 just finished playing.</p>
<p>Is faux confidence enough?</p>
<p>A State of Trance ep. 340 is really awesome!</p>
<p>Posted 'LA Runway: Alexis LaMontagna' to blip.tv: url</p>
<p>looking for angel investors or venture capital, anyone know of someone who i should connect with?</p>
<p>Mistical, THEROCK878, KGCUBS10 and iLlByRnEeLiTeEe are playing CoD4.</p>
<p>Part II of Reston Hospital Center CNO, Cindy Glover, discussing the journey to Magnet Status - url</p>
<p>writing an article on Agresso excelerator a ERP report writing tool for www.AgressoConsultant.com</p>
<p>passed my night 40-acre air sent test with zooey last night. another slam dunk for her. one to go or a second cert!</p>
<p>At lunch sitting on the couch wondering what this whole twitter things is about.</p>
<p>working on my blog</p>
<p>learning more about twitter</p>
<p>Mistical, THEROCK878 and KGCUBS10 are playing CoD4.</p>
<p>reading</p>
<p>trying to get some sort of demo of Dargens.com anonymous p2p to take with me pizza on rails - the concept is looking like a world beater.</p>
<p>Also still putting finishing touches to my article about Agresso Excelerator report writer for www.AgressoConsultant.com.</p>
<p>Testing Friends Network www.Dargens.com:3000 - going to be great when finished - twitter with wings</p>
<p>Going to Pizza or Rails in about 30 mins great news today to hear that host Paul Birch has sold what he helped to found to AOL for $850m</p>
<p>Korg Stylus-Controlled Tablet Synth for Nintendo DS: DS-10: ????????????????? Nintendo DS Korg DS-10.. url</p>
<p>Tried timetoast last night - I really want this to work as it woud be great fr my CV (Resume) - but I could not get it to save - need a fix.</p>
<p>V-Machine ???????????? Music2home.com ??????????: SM Pro Audio to demonstrate the V-Box, V-Rack, and.. url</p>
<p>Decided to day to put the job hunting on hold for a couple of hours and do website www.Dargens.com:3000 look and feel instead</p>
<p>Signing up for twitter.  Listening to Macbreak weekly.</p>
<p>Creating the next stage in human societal evolution and building a city in space.</p>
<p>Heading to Frogtown for the rest of the day</p>
<p>nokia n95 died. got an iphone to replace it. not bad... just lacking some stuff that will be coming out soon.</p>
<p>Reading: Timbaland: I Has a Bus url</p>
<p>Signed up Neo for summer swimming lessons</p>
<p>Posted 'An Afternoon with Jill Sobule' to blip.tv: url</p>
<p>Steve needs the pepper.</p>
<p>We couldn't get in.  No one until 11.  Not even 1-in 1-out.</p>
<p>Pacman wins again</p>
<p>For the media crew:  delta lineis long and slow moving.  Allow plenty of time.</p>
<p>go for meal</p>
<p>1 egg hunt down, 1 to go.</p>
<p>I'm balls to the wall working my ass off.  I have to believe it will be worth it, otherwise I'll go insane.</p>
<p>tibet breaking news: url</p>
<p>downloading the iphone sdk. heard that it's pretty amazing</p>
</body>
</text>
</cesDoc>
    



1 thanks 4 the RT.  Which T Party are you going to?
RT @joe_carney: Essential PHP Techniques for Web Designer and Developers  http://bit.ly/MEm2
B finds a drawing that shows downtown Knoxville was a much busier place in 1921: http://wigsphere.com
RT @EwasteSuzie25 Take the NG E-waste quiz. See what you know! http://tinyurl.com/6kpfy5
_Woodward One small expression of appreciation will often give you courage to carry on for a great while.Be that encourager to others!
10 Days to a Better White Paper - Day 2: Choosing a Winning Topic http://ow.ly/2QMX
turns out some other website copied the HTML source code along with the Google Analytics tracking code - Google doesn't seem to do 404 check
RT @airamericamedia: Watch BRL: Sam&Marc have the real reason why that guy fainted on Glenn Beck http://ow.ly/2QJ2 || Overwhelmed by crazy?
3301 I understand that's how you feel and now I've also come to understand that you have no clue why you feel that way.
BanPuppyMills Zootoo fails to make good on Million Dollar make over: This is so sad and frustrating.. http://tinyurl.com/d658mv
Hey Jay, Thanks for the connection. My lobster book is a wacky relationship book http"//bit.ly/PHn1 or video http://bit.ly/5GYu
I guess they are not all geniuses like you; arguing the facts as they dont agree with your misguided agenda #TCOT
Hard to work when it is in the low 60's here.  Gorgeous~
Philly.com >> School district reform plan released: After fielding ideas and concerns at doze.. http://tinyurl.com/cxnxe4
Happened to me yesterday. I'm not patient with email issues.
Found my ipod. This is the first step to becoming a glamorous American lady. A GAL.
Alright, just checking! He's my professor and supposedly has a daughter that would be about your age. Nice to meet you, anyway!
And that was AFTER I'd made a Jets/Sharks joke in the Fifteen Minutes.
35+ websites to gain serious design related traffic http://bit.ly/eKdNN (oops, last link was wrong, sorry!)
RT @DiabetesSupport We'd like for you to share your tasty vegetarian ideas,please tweet it or send us a link to that page  @DiabetesSupport
Philly.com >> Judge allows sale of Madoff's Mets tickets: NEW YORK - A federal bankrupt.. http://tinyurl.com/cd2goz
20 I hope you brought your hairspray.  It's blowin something fierce today.  ;)
Didn't you guys just switch to them?
Philly.com >> FBI seeking serial bank robber: The FBI is asking for help in locating a Philad.. http://tinyurl.com/d25voa
Google Losing Up To $1.65M a Day On YouTube - http://tinyurl.com/a8z7y4/04/14/1630239&from=rss
phew, not only am I not a jerk but I don't know where Fenway Park is either ;)
*snort*
Had trouble with Tweetdeck latency, so I switched over to Nambu.  It's working great.
off too the gym in a hr or two tell in the studio lol
RT @alapoet: RT @thehillers The Doors  Roadhouse Blues #music  http://blip.fm/~4be2h <= Thank You for the RT have a rockin' Day
You are welcome! check out our other twitter account @watchfiremusic - best to you!
Social Media Vs. Email: The Debate Continues [good discussion] http://bit.ly/3njJtI #onlinemarketing
will sleep now. http://plurk.com/p/o7gzn
http://www.thepokeratlas.com  http://tinyurl.com/cx6jqm
RT @explorechicago Fun for Families: Sound Opinions hosts a screening of School of Rock 4/15 w/disc tix for kids http://bit.ly/schoolofrock
Don't forget! tomorrow!  1st ever twitter protest! If you don't like how the turnpike is being run, tweet STOPTHEPIKEHIKE @massgovernor!
Stay in school: Overall unemployment rate for more educated is only 4.3%; with high school no college, 10%; high school dropouts, 15.5%.
World news: Watchdog group: N. Korea   expelling nuke inspectors - http://is.gd/spmI
Hello, I am presently in Ste- Croix near Quebec City.
I am trying to be patient about the new nine inch nails app that's coming out for iphone... But I am just so fucking excited!
Lappeenranta Weather: Mostly Cloudy. 5 C (Feels like 5). Humidity: 87% Winds: 4 km/hr WNW. http://tinyurl.com/3o9zrh
National news: US: North Korea must cease 'provocative threats' - http://is.gd/spmK
CSNY-Carry On  http://blip.fm/~4bf0a
Interesting facts & truths about Columbine... 10 years later... http://bit.ly/OIcdV
Next right-wing protest:  Sending in ketchup packages to protest illegal immigration. "Ketchup" the Real RED Sauce in the red white and blue
Botha faces another ban http://tinyurl.com/dbkqgv
Using social media w/CRM to build: Lead Generation, Brand Building, Product Vision, and Retention-Michael Thomas, Neighborhood America
i am wondering how buckhead will be affected by this rescession - i heard some new condo developers are offering owner financing
good reading RT @Trish_HR Awesome articles by David Wilkins in T+D and Talent Man. mags: http://twurl.nl/k0g66f and http://twurl.nl/dgoced.
Let's make Susan Boyle a trend! A "must see" http://tinyurl.com/c49rgl #susanboyle
RT @FreedomRing:"When people fear their gov't, there is TYRANNY ~ When gov't fears the people, there is LIBERTY." ~Jefferson #teaparty
gettin XSL Error again... no Podcasts are displayed
Busy sports schedules create balancing act: At 4 pm, the Lady Greenback softball team will start a doubleheader .. http://bit.ly/17Mhy
Step #6 - Track Your Efforts - Use a good tracking form that you can easily create, Reach, Frequency, Cost, Effectiveness (more discussion).
Today, rebuild one relationship you care about.
configuring a proftpd server :)
Nintendo sets firm dates for Wii MotionPlus and Wii Sport Resort: Nintendo has finally settled on a concrete dat.. http://bit.ly/X13Vt
suggestion - place link within your tweets redirecting users to where they can sample the album. just a thought
So then, in your framework, no analogies would be allowed because they are all relative not direct comparisons.
Per KFFL.com: Red Sox | Beckett suspended six games - http://www.kffl.com/gnews.php?id=565992
I agree
there are some great projects on moderncat.net too!
Ed Miliband tells C4 News that the office for special advisors has been purged. Snow also trumps up web 2.0 media.
 LOL..I know the feeling! ,,,LOVE your new Picture!  Soothing
RT @mike_elgan: Magnetic "Cloud" sofa floats in mid air http://tinyurl.com/ccknmc
The Universe. Visualized. See how small we are: http://cli.gs/geDB0j
My god, you're such an asshole.  Are you that way in person too?
Social Media Metrics for Ad Agency NewBusiness http://is.gd/nNQY
RT @junie12e: @LayneM Morning! @LayneM Hi Junie12e! Morning too you as well
Google preps next version of Android, which will support soft keyboards and allow widgets on home screen http://ping.fm/MTxzL
Pretty cool, isn't it? :D all the best...
I am most sassy.
On me demande de placer le hashtag #malartic... merci!
Bother, no #radio3 here! Love Handel, sung in the Messiah a long time ago...
Looking at: "Business card as a Google search result" ( http://tinyurl.com/ctk79s )
RT @mamasource Tired of cooking? So was this Mom. Check out all the cool ideas other Moms suggested: http://jijr.com/hnRN
Senior Systems Administrator (200+ Servers Environment Required) in San Mateo: We're looking for a Systems Admin.. http://tinyurl.com/dd3jar
for a second there I thought you were about to make history on twitter.  ;)
: You misunderstand. You should be supporting the people who are handing out the shit sandwich posters, not disavowing them. #tcot
Comodo CEO on Hiring A Social Media Officer http://bit.ly/2gyiy8
Taking a peek at the *ahem* nicer looking Silent Hill remake. http://bit.ly/x819O
RT @EleART: Best Cool, Clever & Unique Billboards and Outdoor Advertising  http://bit.ly/18uBrU
The real reason why developers are awkward http://is.gd/shKz #postrank #startup
Living in the moment... thanks for the reminder. :) So easy to forget, isn't it?
RT: RT @starandbucwild: Is it me or does Tevin Campbell look like a man who's had his back blown out one too many times? http://bit.ly/SSOQ
i did like the mark-to-market enron conversation. guess i was expecting more since friday's show was canceled
RT @mashable Boston = Social Media Hub http://bit.ly/2JpN1d features @pistachio, @chrisbrogan among others, but oddly not @pbeaulieu
 You can count on my visit :)
Deconstructing A Hip-Hop Music Mix To Hear How The Mix Comes Together http://digg.com/u110KJ
Mariehamn Weather: Clear. 5 C (Feels like 2). Humidity: 70% Winds: 11 km/hr N. http://tinyurl.com/66nny7
By @kdwashburn Comparison as instruction, Research:  http://bit.ly/13b5Io Relation to learning  http://bit.ly/16XNY #education #teaching ...
Sick of the cold weather and sniffles already.  At least I got a break from the cold in Las Vegas.
The secret to dating like a French woman:  http://bit.ly/1JWMJ2
The BBC's Washington correspondents track developments in the first 100 days of Barack Obama's presidency. http://tinyurl.com/d97jot
Ok ~ How did you know? I started in finance and ended up in fashion~Vintage Retro Chic fashion that is, thanks for the follow
Obama's Conversation Starter: National Journal.com's Amy Harder wrote an interesting profile of Joe Rospars who .. http://tinyurl.com/ck8436
Aloha everyone!! Sunny, windy day on Maui and do you know where your parents are at??? Working...at the beach? any clue???
_Jo Free Speech that doesn't agree.
People, madam, is morons, as someone once said to me.  Lovely morons but morons none the less.
do you have a 3G Aircard?
VB.Net, SQL Server, ADO.Net Applications Developer in Bellevue, WA http://tinyurl.com/dl5rjw
RT @physorg_com Researchers study signaling networks that set up genetic code http://tinyurl.com/c73za3
Sounds like a good reason to dust off the spring cleaning list so outdoors is a mess.It is looking good here, so far.
Twitter Power - How to Dominate Your Market One Tweet at a Time http://bit.ly/VGKN
RT @ericgrant: "grass-roots" The Corporate Lobbyists Behind the Tea Parties #tcot #p2 #teabagging #teaparty  http://twurl.nl/4i1jp1
Patch day is full of server downtime and instability!  :(
WHAT?! RT @alapoet RT @BuzzEdition LMAO Bikini Razor Commercial Tells Women to "Mow The Lawn" http://bit.ly/DV0Jy or http://digg.com/d1oiCm
Report: Connecticut Huskies coach Geno Auriemma to coach U.S. women's basketball team http://tinyurl.com/c63o26
check her DIY page out : http://www.moderncat.net/category/diy/
too much pie?
Reason some give for unfollowing? "Because you don't follow back!" Ugh. "Then what I say/tweet is meaningless then, eh?"
Holler at me IL. Fight hate in your own backyard: http://www.facebook.com/home.php?#/event.php?eid=71522798569&ref=nf mark kirk=hate.
UK: Wii Fit Back On Top - Edge http://tinyurl.com/dyf8d3
Nuke panel: N. Korea ousts inspectors, reviving facilities http://twurl.nl/dayvel
RT @technolene: Drop the sanctions. Grant them statehood. Let the locals take care of Castro and co #hhrs #tcot #ctbo |great idea!
http://bit.ly/Times - Acrylic - Times
RT @maudnewton Happy 93rd birthday, Beverly Cleary. http://tinyurl.com/d3p86u (via @asheresque)
Fun idea... what did you serve?
bbcworld North Korea orders UN nuclear inspectors to leave the country, the organisation's nuclear watchdog says. http://tinyurl.com/cpyblf
In the light of day wish I had taken home plate of Kata's pork adobo last night. Important: more vinegar than shoyu he said. Not one to one.
new blog post: revolutionaries protest gov't taxation by dumping tea in World's Fair Park pond, or something like that: http://wigsphere.com
Thoughts from Michael Thomas' webinar: Social Media is not a tool to close business, but rather to support  business
The Fragile Flight of the Twitterlings - http://tinyurl.com/cbxud3
Liked "When fast food gets in the fast lane - Los Angeles Times" http://ff.im/-279aL
NC Babies Now Being Tested For Cystic Fibrosis : Legislators decided last year to add the disease to the list of.. http://tinyurl.com/dmtc63
Yeah, I definitely would not want to be that guy. It's hard to find a new job in this economy. #amazonfail
_Holdeman phone outages? inability to contact employees? re: your flood survey of businesses? www.volorecovery.com
hey, I only ACT interested in @ponet - its @MaraBG I really want (I hear she's a wild thing :D)
Unscientific comparison of the diff b/t Twitter/FB updates  (via TweetDeck) so far  FB happyhappyjoyjoy, Twitter marketing, echo & sarcasm
LearningTrends online event April 21 seeks moderators from across the globe.  Welcome your help asap. Details > http://sn.im/trulo
Me too, but I wouldn't need authentication for a hockey pool RSS feed.
yuo refuse to accept the facts, only dismiss; Why would your pal Obama do everything he can with team of lawyers to block #TCOT
New blog post: DiggBar Sucks http://tinyurl.com/dkf48p
Gettin some lunch at mchale's irish pub...yum!
$DIA long scalp
As you wich ;-)
Unlike my owner, I am definitely not a mutt.  Here's my lineage and a grainy puppy photo: http://amigopwd.home.att.net/charley.htm
Can Yahoo and Microsoft Kiss and Make Up? - http://tinyurl.com/c2kpce
Never judge a book by its cover,u just might miss out!!BRITAINS GOT TALENT 2009 SUSAN BOYLE http://tinyurl.com/ct8p3c
Twitter Is Taking Over The World http://tinyurl.com/dn44m3
I can never make it to the Summits. I hope everyone has fun.
do let me know what you think specially since you are in the EU
Did you get rid of your cable?
You're evil.
Inspiring video of the week: Susan Boyle, 47, takes Britain by storm... http://www.dailymotion.com/swf/x8ymn0
Phil Butler intervew with Sabrina Horn on PR in the Digital Age http://budurl.com/ve53
RT @LaneKiffinUT: Looking forward to practice #13 today...we're going to have the top 10 student sports goers at practice this afternoon. ??
RT: Or is Sara Nelson suggesting that the twittersphere is a homogenous swarm of indie bookstore-loving homosexuals & their lib. comrades?
always look to see who funds research. makes a HUGE difference in what is reported.
Janelle Monae - "Many Moons" [LIVE]: Janelle rocks another spellbinding live performance for the HHO cameras dow.. http://tinyurl.com/cb47d6
Mikkeli Weather: Cloudy. 3 C (Feels like 3). Humidity: 93% Winds: 2 km/hr W. http://tinyurl.com/6x9hx2
Blahblahblahblahsicksicksicksick
I'm attending the free #hubspot webinar How to Use Social Media to Attract More Customers on April 14 - http://bit.ly/smcrm
Jesus Christ!  Should we just nuke your entire town?
An Ulster homecoming - blog update.  http://bit.ly/CrjTc
..yes, and  with responsibility, the perception of Power. This is what give us the insanity of the ego.
- its probably just done by accident, still leaves analytics in real a mess -- dozens of pages to filter out
I believe that we will see a Sprint iPhone before WiMax hits mainstream
Sorry, we gave up your spot already to somebody else. Just kidding, come on back!
1 I'm pretty sure you were being sarcastic..but it's so hard to tell over twitter haha but yeah I do think they are.
don't forget Bon Jovi. Wait. That kinda counteracts the rest. sorry. ;-)
::grin:: Okay, too good a price not to mention. Star Wars Cantina Band Bust-Ups Box Set for $6.80. That's 73% off. http://tinyurl.com/dbesul
1 in 5 Windows PCs Still Hackable by Conficker - http://tinyurl.com/dzueuc
$AIG:the treasury agreed in the environment then prevailing, AIG's failure would have posed unacceptable risks  http://tinyurl.com/c5nltb
Step#7 - The MOST IMPORTANT = EXECUTE - ACTION REQUIRED! \
the books and the posts, GO MAKE IT HAPPEN - NOW - DAILY.
I doubt it, the White House, House/Senate have an agenda and their ears are covered.
Ash and I are stuck in traffic! Entertain us
notice u said "most" ppl how irritating is that
You shouldn't.  Tell yourself they are lame and then forget about them!
Well, obviously "teabagging" isn't as funny as the "juicing" thing you stretched-out for a million weeks.
cARTer to Guest Host on HHO.: All this week, the big homie cARTer will be guest hosting on Hip Hop Official. The.. http://tinyurl.com/dexm9r
Taking a cup of tea! :D
Mobile Crunch: Oh, how far we've come | Fixing a hole: Toshiba's: http://tinyurl.com/aat7kx Orig http://tinyurl.com/cc8bp8
79 Jacqueline Novogratz (founder of the Acumen fund) and Barack O.
RT @livedesk: Do you think the tea parties will influence policy at all? Martha We could only Hope!  Sadly Dont think they will listen ...
2009 World's Most Ethical Companies http://tinyurl.com/c6nbxy
Redman Freestyle.: In case you didn't know, the Funk Doctor Spock runs through more bars than Lindsey Lohan's dr.. http://tinyurl.com/c5xngt
well done!
Birdhouse: The CMS For Twitter You Don't Need  But Watch The Video http://bit.ly/3UR794
RT @tweetmeme: Facebook Can Get You Fired, Dumped, And Yes, Evicted http://bit.ly/13PxYD (via @HotRodGyrl)
yup; you are what you Tweet! :)
onw would think it would lag as well but maybe there is the proverbial movement of numbers
RT @PeterSantilli: Americans often seem to be so overwhelmed by their children. They'll do anything for them except stay married to the  ...
OMG! Thanx @redeyechicago 4 sharing http://snipr.com/fvxvg Susan Boyle singing "I Dreamed a Dream" spine-tingling! WOW!
Artist of the Week: PAC DIV.: The new school Fat Boys cover the tough topics, such as the importance of a good c.. http://tinyurl.com/cuejax
Geoff Ramsey's (CEO emarketer) predictions for 2009 http://bit.ly/643N
RT @securitytwits: RT @jcran: "FYI linux forensics toolkit repository released by CERT: http://www.cert.org/forensics/tools/"
Please put the hashtag #malartic please...
Do We Really Need Twitter Search Alternatives? http://bit.ly/C3NXM
FREE webinar: 7-Figure Master Marketers Get 100+ Leads / Day On Complete Autopilot. Wed. 9 p.m. EST, Register now http://snipr.com/fu2h2
Check out @WakeUpwithDougK Daytona Beach, FL talk show host.
RT @abbyharenberg: Nice! RSS to Twitter by category http://www.postrank.com/twitter via @creattica:
So we should all just confine ourselves to political opinions that occupy the middle ground?
_Prentice The one you are is but I listened to the exact same one a week or two ago with Graham (the one that you skipped) LOL
Twitter is at least a dress rehearsal (Scripting News) http://bit.ly/7ggJf
New on MNpublius: The GOP&#8217;s ineffective opposition http://tinyurl.com/dysfn5
Earned media isn't free? http://bit.ly/Fnb2
Downloading Ubuntu for my junker laptop. This is taking forever as my brother is hogging all the bandwidth.
RT @myrnaslist: Newsweek: Can changing how you think reverse aging? http://tinyurl.com/cag9oe
the UI looks MUCH NICER this way! :D
Mmh so Blend behaviors are not executed in Blend... annoying, I wanted to use one for design time functionality.
93 whatcha mean my friend?
have you tried to just use the Facebook importer?  It imports flickr, youtube, rss, etc... so easy
Nice to see you on Twitter.  Please get Bricks to join as well. Oh hell, Faneca and the rest of the great O-line!
Hey everyone who follows-THANK YOU. I now have 450 followers! Whoo Hoo!
New Blog Entry, "Jvenes Creativos - VENCEDORES" - http://tinyurl.com/d5o49u
Only if you separate facts from opinions. I would agree if you said "opinion is personal not global."  Can you separate truth from fact?
I consider myself a dreamer. Its always easy to come up with new ideas but implementing them is harder.
Stay Tuned my fellow twitters.  I am going to have a major announcement in two weeks on a new business launch that I am very excited about!
Its as ridiculous as you posing as #TCOT but defending the #Obama tyranny LOL #TCOT
RT @McCainBlogette: I told you I am digging my nickname "the lady gaga of politics", I own it || Except you're never talking politics.
RT @PeteCarroll: Song of the day! Offspring "Gonna go far kid" http://tinyurl.com/6d8q2t
Susan Boyle "The Biggest Yes" Of Britain's Got Talent **: Living in a world where not having a "real talent" is .. http://tinyurl.com/cda8gq
Lederman, Sol (Federated Search Blog): So much government information, so little time: MuseGlobal CEO Kate Noerr.. http://snipurl.com/fvy08
#glitchmyass Reps from Amazon before PR attempt to spin it as "a glitch": http://snipurl.com/fvlnk & http://snipurl.com/fvlmb
RT @alexalbrecht: http://bit.ly/8m4bL live right now talking about WoW!
CatWalk 3 Recipe Sites For The Post Fast Food Era http://tinyurl.com/croeg8
"Cy&H: You know how to use one of these? [Comic]" - http://digg.com/d1ofZc?OTC-twf13
I am a 76 year old 20 yr member of the AmerLegion and can assure you that we are very happy with AL response.
RT @justincutroni: Just because you've installed a Web Analytics tool doesn't mean you don't need to maintain it. It takes work! #wa
SKype now bigger than Facebook.  http://ow.ly/2CdU
Tennant: Digital Libraries: DLF Merges With CLIR: As I had predicted would likely happen, the Digital Library Fe.. http://snipurl.com/fvy0e
Dirty Diapers, Shame and Web Analytics | FutureNow&#39;s GrokDotCom ...: ... measure profit per customer (or ord.. http://bit.ly/Q5wAE
RT @ibored: Russian Doctor Finds Tree Growing in Patient: http://tinyurl.com/d25edm ~ most disgusting retweet ever @danwarp @munckytown
Hey Dad! I'm about to do a semanar! Gotta go! Love ya!
Oulu Weather: Fair. 2 C (Feels like -1). Humidity: 69% Winds: 9 km/hr N. http://tinyurl.com/3fjbg2
New blog post: iPhone rumors: Apple has 100 million flash chips on the way  http://tinyurl.com/c5vnzs
Zhena's Gypsy Tea Goes Beyond Organic to a More Dynamic Level. Joins With Whole Foods Market to Introduce Biodynamic(R) Tea. http://tiny ...
My homework on the plane  http://twitpic.com/3bd8v
Confirmed: The Obama DHS hit job on conservatives is real - Malkin - April 14 http://ff.im/-279qc
RT @infidelsarecool: National Guard on Alert for Violence from TEA Party Protesters? http://twurl.nl/7ed0eb #tcot #teaparty
AdReady Enhances Suite of Services to Streamline Online Display ...: In three months, we increased our lead flow.. http://bit.ly/Z3AV
John Denver  "I'm Sorry"  http://twt.fm/49503
New blog post: WordPress " Parteibuch Aggregator " WordPress Plugins http://tinyurl.com/dap2md
Sexxy Travel http://www.dreampleasuretours.com/index.htm or find your Hosts @ Nikki Beach Mike & Meredith or Ele & Danielle for tickets
Oh dear, there's a dreadful potential pun there...
I hear bacon sandwiches are good? Also, I asked for hangover cures--God, was it last year? Hydration seems to be important.
I think Jason is a bigger fan. Which one is it? Huell visits FIDM or Huell visits American Apparel? (spelling mistake, I think)
Wow. RT @mattcanale Once again, 4chan wins the internet: http://ping.fm/Ss3w5
How Google Treats Affiliates in the Web Search Results... (SEO ...: SEO Round Table less than a day ago. A month.. http://bit.ly/lLVp8
He was already tried once.  Enough already with this guy.
nice- I should print that out and put it up on my wall...
Sarah Michelle Gellar Baby Bump Watch!. Get the Full Story at FlyLip Celebrity News http://flylip.com/t/224983/
I has a cecerian 8 months ago and now i'm 2 months pregnant again. Is it too soon?: I had a cecarian 8 months ag.. http://tinyurl.com/cvr5qg
Hope you had a great Easter weekend! Re: nursing shortage, THA was featured in this KVUE video: http://tinyurl.com/d25dv5
-- Elvis  My Way live from Hawaii http://tinyurl.com/cg7uyj and our way is always the best way http://bit.ly/PHn1
I'm attending the free #hubspot webinar How to Use Social Media to Attract More Customers on April 14 - http://bit.ly/smcrm
Benefits of Being an Affiliate Marketer | Online Marketing: Affiliate marketing has become one of the most effec.. http://bit.ly/11f8p
140 LMAO!!!! That's so funny! True.. but funny. Thanks for the laugh.
_creative Best idea i've heard all month.
I hate it when things are advertised as "1 for X$, 2 for (2X)$". No shit?
How to Make Some Money Fast Online With Affiliate Marketing | Blue ...: So you want to make some money fast onli.. http://bit.ly/7cfNn
NRA is ok but PETA takes things a bit too far.
RT @carogonza: GIVEAWAY: Doggie treats!! http://pestkaj.blogspot.com/
Are right-wing Fox followers sending brown anthrax in tea bags to government offices because they couldn't get enough oil and fertilizer?
Filing my taxes...ugh!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Usually I get them done right away but I knew we owed this year.
Verry pizossibly.
_howard  yes you are :) Great post!
Lunch again in chinatown i kinda feel like the dude from GTA
(actress) stars in "Ball Don't Lie" * Watch movie trailer (teaser) at her official http://youtube.com/DaniaRamirezTV
U know, why don't they just go ahead & close all the schools & save time...Georgia Regents to vote on raising tuition http://twurl.nl/rj1on2
19  I refuse to discuss this matter any further.
Everyone should hit up 5 Elements of Hip Hop tonight at George Mason Univ. - http://organizedtheory.com/
Maybe someone finally managed to break her down.
Step #8 - Evaluate and Adust: Then Repeat. Remember, it will take a while for a good marketing plan to reach its peak effectiveness.PATIENCE
Gave me chills! She is fab!! -- Susan Boyle - Singer - Britains Got Talent 2009 http://tinyurl.com/c49rgl
What's a good Norwegian word for addressing (as in a. a problem)? Norway  - need help!
The State: Reward for arrest in animal crimes http://bit.ly/9GSUQ
Amazing how happy a little piece of paper can make me today! http://twitpic.com/3bd9w
You can use http://bit.ly/ . I use TweetDeck which has this built-in, it runs on Adobe AIR - I think this is available on Linux.
SC-Talk-Show with Kenny - ..more http://tinyurl.com/csd3l8
I am NOT humored by the fact that it is snowing ....
Prescott Valley police kill bobcat after it attacks mom, daughter http://bit.ly/loPtX
SWEET!!!!  How'd you finally do it?
Note to the parents of our children's friends: I own two #guns. Now back to our regularly scheduled play date: http://bit.ly/Vmh7H #tcot
Gaydar iPhone App Sa Gay group protests Vatican stand on rights: (New York City)A nondenominational religious LGBT r..
2 Trout homers power Millville http://bit.ly/3kz1kD
A little afternoon pick me up with The Sea and Cake. enjoy! http://tinyurl.com/cktpo7
My first Brown Trout on Flickr - Photo Sharing! http://bit.ly/B24IL
Your E74 Xbox 360 Will Be Fixed Free Of Charge http://tinyurl.com/c26sy4
Love this OpenSim readme disclaimer: "Some stuff works, a lot doesn't.  If it breaks, you get to keep *both* pieces."
In social networking webinar
4real lady? I would think the opposite
Automatic Rss & Blog Submission Tool - Submit Your RSS Feeds And Blogs To Over 58 Directories And Sites. http://tinyurl.com/c5g7yc
A profound reminder to NOT judge a book by its cover! http://bit.ly/11bSM Susan Boyle (who you've probably never heard of) stops Simon cold!
RT @getdowntown: The Worst (and Best) Streets of Ann Arbor Bike Tour May 1, 4pm: FYI, some of you might be...Th.. http://tinyurl.com/cprb73
Sun shines so do streetlights http://bit.ly/fyQyG
Hoozie Celebrity Gossip Blog  Blog Archive  Jessica Simpson's ... http://bit.ly/Ppe8H
'The Cougar' is a pussycat: \
Stacey Anderson, 40, is mother of four, a divorcee and looking for the fulfil.. http://tinyurl.com/cgn6yr
Shooting golf in the cold isn't much fun.
The Underground's Short Casts for 2009-04-14 | The Trout ... http://bit.ly/snSkl
Good stuff RT @nickroshon Phoenix people, PF Changs offering 15% off everything tomorrow for tax day.mmmmmm http://bit.ly/37qxQ8
No? Just kidding , and u know I thought we could send this little love messages like Miley and Demi does! xD Love yaaa gurl
This is a test of the TweetDeck system.  Had this been a real Tweet authorities would have told you where to hide.
Peter Cundall: spring bulbs http://bit.ly/Z67
Isiah goes back to school: \
Former Knicks coach Isiah Thomas has agreed to become the next head coach at l.. http://tinyurl.com/cshezs
You wee rascal. I thought that was a real painting! he he. Still go across the millennium bridgetowards Tate Modern, it's fab
great article John.  My dh thinks Im not serious enough w/it & I think he's WAY 2 serious about it.Trying to reach a happy medium.
Pori Weather: Fog. -1 C (Feels like -4). Humidity: 100% Winds: 9 km/hr WNW. http://tinyurl.com/3pdvh9
ark eziyeti (Konu D) http://bit.ly/C2Pb
Doctors in favors of more regs on health care costs: http://bit.ly/611xB
DUDE NO WAY. *goes off to check* ZOMG YOU'RE RIGHT!
Wild Trout Trust celebrates another auction success | African Tuna ... http://bit.ly/J5ndD
Red Faction: Guerrilla Heavy Walker Trailer http://tinyurl.com/dmuvrq
RT @ Pistachio: Boston as Social Media HUB http://bit.ly/17MWuS {as a fellow beantownie, LOVED seeing this list/hometown social stars!}
Gay AppStore Says: Wants a Guy... or Girl
Lohan is single &#x2013; she thinks &#x2013; and s..
Wondering who will buy what at the Michael Jackson/Neverland auction.\
ata_ur	MLM Internet Formula Attraction Marketing Norbert Orlewicz | MLM ... http://bit.ly/12AHZL
Gay AppStore Says: Goes to Senate challenger for Minnesota's Senate seat Al Franken has ..
ChangeCamp is a great idea that you should be supporting Don
Just read about it. And sorry to hear that. Chin up to you both.
By @rhpritchard Learn to master Google #-Adwords:  http://bit.ly/xF8h
Gay AppStore Says: Gay Marriage Ban to Apartheid
cementing her support for LGBT people, ac..
Hey new Twitter friends!  Have you seen my stuff on Kyte TV? http://tinyurl.com/cyntnd
Haha im so retarded
is on my knees worshiping at the foot of the Cross, letting the Spirit wash over me as I seek His Will for my life.
Gay AppStore Says: from Around the Web Senator Charles Grassley thinks Iowans ought to have a ..
Gay AppStore Says: Arrested for Possible Hate Crime men were arrested Monday in Gloucester,..
Now that Obama is president it puts severe limits on how he can use email and indeed Twitter. That's why his account is dead.
E-mailers lose sight of tracking  Adotas http://bit.ly/IbaZW
Phil Spector's wall of creepy.   http://bit.ly/2Wyblx
Yes. His dying days should be spent contacting all of the remaining members of the families he butchered. (JMHO)
Affiliate Marketing Tips For Twitter | Murray Newlands http://bit.ly/h9eq
Aww, this is why some people should not be allowed to procreate!  http://tinyurl.com/djo247
RT @TheWorkBuzz: What companies are hiring grads this year? Find out here: http://twurl.nl/ve75nb #college #jobs
I now officially rename you "THE Zeitgeist". Cape and mask forthcoming.
http://tinyurl.com/dhsx5m http://bit.ly/3FtRu4
Just had another interview. I got the old "we haven't made our decision yet [but no]" line.
These things work http://is.gd/spp1 The quickest, easiest way to get tons of followers.
Yes I agree. They'll end up looking the fools they are in the end. No ratings for them! Ha! #teaparty #tpds #msm
Coworking in Rural Places http://bit.ly/bEAk0
suHWEET! ANOTHER nueva video! Wisin Y Yandel featuring 50 Cent, "Mujeres In The Club" http://bit.ly/14YYU
Interested in Business Careers at Maui Community College? Registration assistance is available at Kalama Bldg 207. 808-984-3318 for appt.
Just had inspiring meeting with @corvanleeuwen! Must follow!
Oh... and Tweets have external news... FB  more about life on the home front.
New from CL: Giveaway ends soon! Maybelline Lash Stiletto Mascara in Very Black: 
is .. http://tinyurl.com/cmglvf
Are you coming to visit soon?
After flood 30% businesses thought recovery would take more than three yrs. 10% at 12 months went out of business. via @Eric_Holdeman
via NJ.com Blog: Some Yankee Thoughts: The Yankees are 3-4? The Red Sox are 2-5. I expect AJ Bur.. http://tinyurl.com/d8vja4
New from CL: Review: Zoya Color Lock system try me kit: \ \ color .. http://tinyurl.com/dmlrv3
give it a rest; you aren't going to shut us up, so whats your point? #TCOT
Exmouth! Well that's a long way for a beer - it'll be warm by the time I arrive!
Are you talking about the iPhone app or the desktop app?
Check with @MegFitz and @staroflondon and @emmaguy
RT: @Candice_Jo: So, does the DHS have a copy of the #tcot list? I'm pretty sure they do. LOL!!
Sun shines so do streetlights You must be authenticated to access shorten
Soldiers say accused sergeant exclaimed, 'Just kill me' http://twurl.nl/7omxyw
def. of early adopter: the three yr old sitting next 2 me in the coffee shop on an iPhone. WOW.
Peter Cundall: spring bulbs You must be authenticated to access shorten
FYI I did not get fired, in case you are wondering, but things may be improving. Hopefully lawyers will not be needed. *crosses fingers*
: By hitching your train to Hannity and the teabag movement, you're actually supporting these guys: http://bit.ly/4ufcWe #tcot #p2
84 more days to finalsiteu  http://bit.ly/3TYJ8 and over 100 signed up..
whats up with the dewey square FAIL? astroturfing gone waaaaaaaay awry http://tinyurl.com/dyzafs (h/t @HCAN, @j_ro)
study of #faculty #cites of digital #scholarly info sources- blogs r interim stage of scholarly not cited much http://tinyurl.com/dk5393
www.gmarketingstrategies.com or email GMKTG@aol.com
oohh sorry to hear! yeah course you have the right!
remember when Dubai Lit Fest in Feb banned one gay book? does that make UAE more liberal than Amazon? #amazonfail
RT @onlygators: Florida Gators a unanimous selection atop this week's USA Today/NFCA D-I Top 25 softball poll. UF holds all 30 1st place ...
This is mom:  We're going to have a spelling lesson shortly after the "semanar" (i.e.-seminar). LOL
I have a collar that breaks apart if it gets caught. Mum is keen on collars as last cat got lost and was reunited coz of collar
_agent interesting....easier said than done. What specifically do you have in mind?
Police investigating stabbing of Marist student. - http://bit.ly/WFHx
twitterholics, I decided to only post selected tweets to Facebook now, use this facebook app http://tr.im/iOCv and at end add #fb
Siebel Developers Vistronix College Park, MD http://tinyurl.com/cctblx
Rovaniemi Weather: Clear. -1 C (Feels like -6). Humidity: 52% Winds: 18 km/hr NNE. http://tinyurl.com/4d6xya
Internet Explorer, Tweetdeck, web... it's all a huge mess today on my end. Hearing others complaining in the coffee shop, too.
Rosanne Malouf Anderson and the Malouf family is in our thoughts and prayers :)
Can rationalize that by saying may be bit busy My question is why people follow celebs or those who never tweets or follows bck
love youuuu!!! I'CAN'T BELIVE THISSSS YOU ARE THE MOST AWESOME FRIEND I HAVE IN THE WORLD [...] aaw, you are soo sweet, i love
Successful Web Analytics requires constant monitoring and modification.  It is more than work, it's validating your implementation.  #wa
Is that sunshine I see? Sure would love to be OUTSIDE rather than INSIDE - preferably at the beach!
Vegas mayor on NPR. Dude should probably shut his piehole before he says something he'll re-- Oh. Too late.
QOTD heading into earnings season: A wealth of information creates a poverty of attention(Herbert Simon)
Boosting sales: Zappos creates map on its site showing, in real-time, orders being placed for its shoes across the U.S. http://is.gd/r5KF
Blame me for pushing cupcakes as an Easter treat:danamccauley.wordpress.com/2009/04/10/easy-easter-dessert/
RT @ToddSchager: The chief cause of failure and unhappiness is trading what you want most for what you want now. ~Zig Ziglar
Oh no!  If you have the urge to follow him, you must fight it!  Don't do it, Mike!!!!  *shaking you like a rag doll*
"You Won't Relent" by Misty Edwards, sung by Catherine Mullins. http://tinyurl.com/dxopj4
I'm looking forward to the TEA party in Santa Ana. See you there tomorrow.
Unfortunately I don't - I'm not that advanced with web-development.  I believe you can modify them a lot though.
Some people on the right apparently don't get what "racism" is. http://bit.ly/3IBBTF
Now Playing: Danity Kane - Damaged -- mp3: http://yes.com/i12305996 -- WEBSITE: www.klly.com
I want a Paul Potts and Susan Boyle Christmas Album! Maybe he can give her a kiss. PP http://tinyurl.com/2agwpt SB http://tinyurl.com/c49rgl
Really great product I found yesterday - http://bit.ly/3b9Oy7
looking for a van, imma go walkabout
IP addy data is public record FWIW NYT outs "where" confidential sources come from all the time, just not who.
Webeo -- Marijuana and Driving http://tinyurl.com/6akcfp Check this driving test out! No obvious impairment.
still feels bloated from all the stuff he ate earlier. I think I won't be eating again until the end of the da... http://plurk.com/p/o7hgk
I have your tix :) come by anytime.
omg haha I should be in south of Sweden xD I'm everywhere :O
RT @SarcasticMomLC: Please remember to do this (post this photo at 2:30 Pacific Time 4/14 to honor her) http://bit.ly/4bCsJ6 #Maddie PLS RT
BUDWEISER's brand strength in Twitter is 5.1% according to @Twitalyzer. See why at http://bit.ly/moos9
Brain damaged people: helmets :: deaf people: earplugs
RT @whitneyhess: #uie Design failures aren't  due to a lack of knowledge on a team, but rather an inability to use our soft skills -- Sc ...
How to Lose Weight and Keep it Off Forever to Improve Every Aspect of Your Life: http://EzineArticles.com/?id=2210288
played Guitar Hero World Tour http://gamerdna.com/r/sM7
found the error xsl references are server relative... if #PKS is not your root web you gotta modify the #webpart #properties
Thanks for being there!  Hope to reconnect with you and the marketing goddess herself @WendyShanahan this weekend.
RT @BBHLabs How to be better at digital, or interactive, or new media or whatever: http://bit.ly/4bxd7e (resp to: http://bit.ly/14HVJo)
New blog post: Novos possveis interiores de aeronaves http://freaklink.com.br/?p=2833
"Make a distinctive gift choice! Select Custom Art Prints" - http://ping.fm/4fYdR
RT @12C4: Lindsay Lohan makes mock dating service ad http://is.gd/spoK
if you r left-handed & use a Crayon then the color name is upside down! DISCRIMINATION I say! Can I get a special tag on my car?
Looking for an idea or two to steal? I love this concept and newsletter from @MartyNeumeier: http://tinyurl.com/cbvyx2
RT @frugaldougal http://twitpic.com/3bcot And you can all do it my anipals, cool site for photo fun here http://photofunia.com/
who else is excited about #ghostbusters3?
We have a winner for the Reasor's Contest! Congrats Jamie! http://bit.ly/29HUFQ
Three judge panel declared Al Franken received the most votes and is the winner in Minnesota's drawn out and contentious Senate race.
_Brown The real question is, what keywords will you have to use to have them unfollow you :) Go wild!!
Ashton Kutcher Promises To Punk Ted Turner If He Beats CNN To A Million Twitter Followers http://tinyurl.com/cpdoj8
Any sports/youth marketers out there going to @groupY panel discussion tomorrow @RedBull HQ? Just added - VP/GM of X Games.
what up my brother/ lobster guy
Disgusting Dominos People: http://tinyurl.com/chxbbz
is it wrong that I'm praying it's not fake?  or does it really matter anymore - I cried regardless.  why?  story.
www.robhooperthemovie.com (or human.... buzzkill).
RT @joeciarallo awesome interview with Horn Group CEO Sabrina Horn on Everything PR: http://tinyurl.com/cb4tuf
Uppercut Fail << FAIL Blog: Pictures and Videos of Owned, Pwnd and Fail Moments http://ow.ly/2QQ7
Just using win2vnc with my MacBook to do pseudo dual-screen - http://win2vnc.sourceforge.net/index.html It's just a little buggy.
RT @lizziegolightly: My latest LA Weekly post: Top 5 Songsmith Remixes.  - http://is.gd/snaY
ok I'm all aqua marines,lilacs and purples.nice.
Get your requests in for the Top 5 @ 5.  IM at weqxmusic
RT @straydog9: @gymicrae tree? maybe it was a beauty spot LOL ~ why is this funny to me? Because it doesn't even make sense. That's why.
If anyone has sent me a DM in the last two days, I'm not getting them. My DM list reverted to 4/9 and staying there. ;/
iPhone now fit for the enterprise says Forrester -  http://bit.ly/ec1Nd
RT @ARDELLd: How to turn a whole room into a gigantic "white board" for better brainstorming.http://tinyurl.com/bqghyt > I want!
I have watched this man play the flute everyday for 2 years of my life  http://twitpic.com/3bddx
"And foul fish breath?" You kill me...in a good way.  ;)
God bless Susan Boyle. Never underestimate anyone. Ever. http://tinyurl.com/c49rgl
08 thanx, glad that you enjoyed it.
It doesn't sound cruel.  It is cruel.  He may be more ego than brains (by a factor of 10x) but still.
"Let Me In" arrived in the mail yesterday.  Will begin reading this week.
RT @Republicander: @sanuzis sounds good, applies bad! | yeh, but fun to think about...might be worth the risk?
Giant hand in space!!  http://tiny.cc/0dTCO
http://bit.ly/uNFv more on the lewis Hamilton/McLaren farce
RT @drupal: Code Baboon made a @Drupal surfboard http://codebaboon.com/drupal-surfboard - we're always a sucker for fun Drupal themed items
Savonlinna Weather: Mostly Cloudy. 2 C (Feels like 0). Humidity: 93% Winds: 8 km/hr NW. http://tinyurl.com/3qmekd
RT @auctionwally: From Auctionwally New eBay changes - not much in them for the small seller - even less for auct..http://tinyurl.com/corgy5
Re-formating the card did the trick. Tonight I will all all the pictures back in to see if any of those is the culprit
Cameron demands a change in leadership after Smeargate (http://tinyurl.com/chx7yg)
The long hours are fine by me!  (more free time for me) and he can pay the student loans and take a sack lunch to work, lol
Julia Allison - Very Recent News http://tinyurl.com/cwudty
Arsene Wenger on Arsenal's Champions League quarter-final (http://tinyurl.com/dlp46g)
http://twitpic.com/3bdek - @turbotax Nice customer kudos in Live Community. #taxes
Excellent example of "tea party derangement syndrome" - #tpds http://twitter.com/FuckingBastards/statuses/1518457459 #teaparty LOL
Yeah... if it's not an actual hangover (which you said, but--hope springs eternal)--hydration may still be good. And zinc?
i love you more, (8) aaaw, im listening "girl of my dreams" AND I REMEMVBERD when we sing i together(L i love you so much~
Drug Bust Leads to 2 Arrests http://tinyurl.com/cqqex7
heading to the doctor, then probably target for diapers, then most likely walgreens for meds
_Jo The left is against anyone who won't shut up and take what they want to ram down our throat. It's not about ideas. It's control.
New on #MLB FanHouse MLB Live Chat: Who Is for Real? http://tinyurl.com/cz3ml9
Brooklyn Decker - Very Recent News http://tinyurl.com/csnr6l
Ya, I saw that.  Sums up the typical comment section/forum nicely.
Maggie Gallagher, head of #NOM, professional liar and #Christian bigot extraordinaire: http://is.gd/rydc #Homophobia
Neil Young  Heart Of Gold #music  http://blip.fm/~4bfer
cool, I emailed you through both email forms. Could really use your advise
wahooooo wtg Emily!!!!
Vincent New Blog Post and Video: Why Free Blog Software Is The Best For Newbies http://bit.ly/3OqVVv Plz RT & Comment. http://ff.im/279PW
808 any Willy Wonka factories near you. That might help.
New on #MLB FanHouse Bradley Injured, Haters Overreacting http://tinyurl.com/cmhjye
Lil Kim Wardrobe Malfunction - Very Recent News http://tinyurl.com/d3me3u
RT @Eric_Holdeman Less than half of businesses have flood insurance.
Jimmy Jazz  http://blip.fm/~4bffb
2009 The Year Social Media Becomes Universal, Even for Industrial Marketers http://short.to/3bsq
Chesapeake Watershed Lawsuit in Pa. Clears Hurdle http://tinyurl.com/c4sxer
Don't be afraid of things because they're easy to do (via @Oblique_Chirps)
Brian Regan - Very Recent News http://tinyurl.com/c9ng9g
Business Officer Manager (Winter Park): Details: Regents Park of Winter Park, a proven leader in skilled nursing.. http://tinyurl.com/dj5ygv
*Brain Dessert Alert*~ Quentin Tarantino to mentor this weeks' American Idol~ yes pleaze... http://bit.ly/E4J
RT @ryanaraine: wow.  truste buys haute secure.  congrats iain.
Del. Driving Violations Are No Longer Misdemeanors http://tinyurl.com/c3h849
http://twitpic.com/3bdf7 - Spring has finally arrived.
MLB.com >> Fans can watch Stadium opener in style: Fans can watch Stadium open in style http://tinyurl.com/dk9wte
John, we are doing a twitter book group on this book http://bit.ly/6Cpcd and adding notes here http://bit.ly/B5igJ
MLB.com >> No-no bid spoiled, but Burnett gets win: No-no bid spoiled, but Burnett gets win http://tinyurl.com/cmoz9w
Cuba travel changes split old, new exiles: MiamiHerald.com Lopez is happy that her travels to see family and fri.. http://bit.ly/46WUr7
popularity of Twitter has some relationships in a twist http://bit.ly/16Tq1G
Journos Are Alienating Readers With 'Retro' References http://ow.ly/2Tsm "If you're under 40, certain references may need to be Googled."
Blue and Gold >> Like A Flashback http://tinyurl.com/cdajm9
MobileCrunch:  iPhone OS 3.0 Beta 3 is out 8 Comments by Greg Kumparak on April 14,: http://tinyurl.com/aat7kx Orig http://tinyurl.com/ks29y
ok, I will email you more info as I receive it ;)
A Twitter fiend in front row of mayor&#39;s speech: Council President ... http://bit.ly/xe1SS
Travel Agents Booking Trips to Cuba Win Suit: By CARMEN GENTILE MIAMI  Florida travel agencies that book trips .. http://bit.ly/fGslP
Welcome to twitter, Mr.Moseley :)
Watching 'Steve Rifkind says Asher Roth Album TOP 5 EVER - ThisIs50.com : IF IT'S HOT IT'S HERE!' at Vodpod http://bit.ly/3ErL
Hello from Sydney :) found you here: http://tinyurl.com/c56cd5
Adam Lambert scorches American Idol with 'Born to be Wild' - Newsday - http://tinyurl.com/d3wzor
Oracle Database Administrator - TEKsystems - San Mateo, California: TEKsystems is looking for an ORACLE DBA for .. http://tinyurl.com/clt8zt
Jennifer Love Hewitt: I'm All About Geeks: Jennifer Love Hewitt wants to show her sexy Maxim spreads to her gran.. http://twurl.nl/vbksqs
In memory of my late friend Chad, the biggest perv I ever had the pleasure of knowing, I dedicate tomorrow's teabagging. #teaparty
Solar Power from space! Good stuff.. http://bit.ly/10v8k
nossa andar de submarino deve ser bem legal!
ESPN >> My Predictions: Cowboys will win 10 games: Posted by ESPN.com&#39;s Matt Mosley OK, I&#39;v.. http://tinyurl.com/c3qunn
Thursday night not tomorrow. Everyone is chomping at the bit to get to this one!
Peace to my 506 followers! Ya sure know how to make a brutha feel good! Thank Y'all! Get at me, I don't bite.
Watching: "Hollywood Movie Trailers And Teasers: State Of Play (2009)" (http://twitthis.com/nvnnfc)
I was waiting to hear back but I can do the show tomorrow and the May UG
933 lol you were right, Armageddon (aerosmith) was the first song
Caught My Eye: "Kindle 2 Causing Eye Strain?" ( http://tinyurl.com/c23qhp )
Variety Ousts Executive Editor Michael Speier: It&#39;s unknown how many other Variety staffers will be affected.. http://bit.ly/dOPc6
Seto fumi furikake fan, myself.
Juan Enriquez  TEDTalks : Beyond the crisis, mindboggling science and the arrival of Homo evolutis - Juan Enriquez (2009): http://www.la..
Why make that promise when you well know you have no intention of even trying to keep it?
Amazon: Now One-Third of All U.S. E-Commerce [Voices] http://viigo.im/j96
Parents might matter less than peer groups in long-term identity formation: http://is.gd/rLI6 Judith Harris, 'The Nurture Assumption'
i use firefox & chrome n it shows...
Newspaper Bias in Reporting: How News Stories Are Chosen Limits ...: With the cost of publishing a paper rising,.. http://bit.ly/1Q6Vj1
Royals win and are now 5-3!  Yeeha!  #royals
- www.NonPerishableMarketing.com might be a good thing to look into.
great linen prices especially for Twitters.. http://tinyurl.com/cqvhog
"Star Trek Skips Midnight Screenings: 7pm on May 7th!" - http://digg.com/d1ofEb?OTC-twf13
Gibbs-Mazak Collaboration Extends to Exhibits http://bit.ly/Ks2vY
The Humans Behind the Logo - Skrocki&#39;s Blog: Skrocki&#39;s Blog: Sun, Social Media, Random Thoughts... go to.. http://bit.ly/mTJG
https://www.revenue.state.il.us/ Government is beyond embarrassing. Illinois=run by assholes. How is the website down? Why do I need a pin?
"Here's a mental treatment guaranteed to cure every ill that flesh is heir to..."
Dear Hollywood, please quit making crappy movies. Thank you. Sincerely, Jason
Building relationships on a budget http://bit.ly/uwSaV
Juliette Powell: Isaac Mizrahi on the ROI of &#39;Real Women&#39;: In fact, more and more brands are investing i.. http://bit.ly/1rtsHV
Marketing Your Website Without Search Engines http://bit.ly/Zepu
Which do you hate more .. the DC DMV or your drivers license pic? Tough call? Story out of the break.
The Humans Behind the Logo - Skrocki&#39;s Blog http://bit.ly/K7gk
just applied for a job in fenton... after all those years of making fun of my friends am i ready to become a fentonite?
@37celsius today
Network marketing works, but there is SO much competition, not here, not now http://snipr.com/fw1nq
More on eBay and Skype: Bloomberg http://tinyurl.com/cdytty (investor here)
BecomingWhoYouWantToBe | Affiliate Site - How Do You Design It http://bit.ly/qgKc3
I'm thinking about MONEY and how much I'm making! WOOOHOOO! #40dn http://bit.ly/5j6O
tonight...i'm outta here.  night night @briannack
I wish I knew he was gonna be @ Berkeley last year...I would have shook his hand.
Shit. The Zombiepocalypse is upon us. http://twitpic.com/3c6lj
They say it's been in the works for a year, but it leads with issues that are Post-November election. http://bit.ly/S52ga #tcot #tlot #sgp
this account of chuck e. cheese animatronic fail is one of the funniest things i've read in AGES. seriously.
  from dusk til dawn
Drums > Come Together > Dark Star > Sugar Magnolia\
Uncle Johns Band\
Ripple \
great 2nd set!
"You play with fire, you're gonna get BURRRRNED!" - and anyone who says the first Power Rangers movie isn't an amazing masterpiece is lying!
Thanks Ines. Going to be visiting her in L.A. next week and she'll be back here in May.  That was taken last year here in Kirkland WA
on property or rights? they have already done both...
AMAZING illustration of just how small we are in the universe - http://tweet.me.it/8wmphv
Swahili and Arabic too, but don't let that get around.
Watching '*Prank Gone Wrong* Teacher Hospitalized After Students Put Poison In Her Coffee - ThisIs50.com : IF IT'S HOT IT'S H...' at Vod ...
beta adwords interface warning. - Search Engine Optimization Forum ... http://bit.ly/3jwAAJ
Twitter Worm Strikes - Gadgetwise Blog - NYTimes.com: Starting early Saturday, attackers unleashed a series of w.. http://bit.ly/18u4L0
wine... or liquor? #mylifeissohard
my sister just told me to "stop being a dinosaur"
 The FTC Wants To Keep Bloggers Honest Search Engine Optimization ... http://bit.ly/Drp3M
"...sit for 1/2 hr every night & mentally forgive everyone against whom u have any ill will or antipathy" Charles Fillmore
RT @om: Will JoltID Turn EBay' Dream of Skype IPO Into a Nightmare? http://tinyurl.com/cosjjf
Well, I am signing off - want to get up early (5am) and do some work before the sun comes up. :-)
How to Become &#39;Their Brand&#39;: Engaging Today&#39;s Fickle Customers ...: Giving consumers a public forum .. http://bit.ly/ktYqG
19 Sorry it took so long for me to reply. I'm like....way out of it tonight.
Anoop! His performance is up, & arguably the best of the night. http://www.rickey.org/?p=14319
CNN: Report: Right-wing extremism may be on rise http://bit.ly/DxBk
up to 20 followers.  @danielshea should really try to get me more.  and i promise to tweet more once i join the ranks of bberry holders
 have fun in Phoenix!
For me, bitly is like the SoundScan of realtime web behavior.
http://bit.ly/173kux Cost Of Living Now Outweighs Benefits - Very funny post from TheOnion, but also surprisingly on target these days!
i do take naps whenever I can as well. 20-30 minutes and I am good to go.
folks checking u. Lol
Marketing Your Website Without Search Engines: marketing-search-engines I'm not old enough to remember what the .. http://bit.ly/10G5c
I spent my Easter watching Season 6 of SATC and knitting a shawl.  Today I will hopefully get some candy for cheap.
#PALM merchan ein?
Tibetans coming to terms with women Buddhist masters | Silver ... - Kathmandu, April 13 (IANS) The 800-year-old Tibetan Drukpa lin http: ...
RT @paustin110 I've been getting crazy high hit numbers on blog the past few days for #TeaParty info. This is going to be HUGE! #tcot
RT @libertyrant: Three words for #teaparty, tomorrow: Recruit, Recruit, Recruit. May your wings always be the right ones.
Yep. It is a Firefox plugin.  Has been pretty cool so far.
The 7 Most Important Internet Marketing Principles | supreme-host.com: www.easywebautomation.com Robert Bankston.. http://bit.ly/qc5N
watching Rachel Maddow and the game!!
Eastbay 15% off any order (exclusions apply) http://couponalbum.com/coupons/eastbay.htm
Ridiculous carter solo!!!!
_McD i might move there instead 2 the US... u have koalas.
Wow with that criteria for blocking people Im surprised you have anyone left-especially me! :)
thanks for the heads up on http://www.malarianomore.org my husband and i always do charity work..its part of his job :)
Yahoo may get $450 million yearly from Microsoft search deal  http://bit.ly/nbxLm
uh-oh something wrong with the update?...I just updated something or other
hahaha nice one.
couple of days off with a friend...lots of yoga and running...then back to it on Monday!!
"If you focus on results, you will never change. If you focus on change, you will get results." - J. Dixon #quote (Please Retweet)
ACT360 Knowledge Networking: New Online Training Available For ...: ACT360 Media also designs custom eLearning s.. http://bit.ly/19HzlE
21 hello excellent choix ;-)
Las Vegas Station Casinos, lenders agree to extend deadline: \
its lenders have agre.. http://tinyurl.com/c5l99t
1Bass She has to be following you before you can message her. And thanks for your earlier messages about BC-STV!
Las Vegas Henderson-based resort company sees shakeup, moving to N.Y.: \
at Empire Resorts In.. http://tinyurl.com/dalv46
WAHM Business Opportunities Weblog | Miami Program Offers ...: Opportunities, news, and links for work at home m.. http://bit.ly/xtsC
    I am really going to try. Want to meet everyone in person and have a tax write off! <evil laugh<
Thats a cool link!
RT @michellemalkin RT @ericjodom: GOD BLESS TEXAS! http://tinyurl.com/d5q8do #teaparty | 3cheers for rightwing extremism! #tcot
Las Vegas Police search for missing man with medical condition: \
asking for the public.. http://tinyurl.com/ch4jo9
My husband thinks I'm working -please don't tell him I'm playing with you tonight! Oopps, forgot, he's following me on Twiiter. Gigs up!
Now, what did I miss?  Are @ninjen and @RightGirl here and wreaking havoc?
Las Vegas Anesthesiologist who feds said was fall guy sues surgeons: \
anesthesiologist file.. http://tinyurl.com/d8tjc4
Las Vegas Searchlight justice of the peace dies of stroke: \
of the Peace W.. http://tinyurl.com/cmx2zv
The federal gov't can tax my Oklahoma "use tax" (ie sales tax).  They tax my tax?  #FAIL
    ...phenomenally blessed woman <~~couldn't say it any better.  So thankful to be able to share thru educating & inspiring others :-
We are a generation of men raised by women, I'm wondering if another woman is really the answer we need" Tyler Durden
Am I the only one who can't get the pigtailed Fook Yu out of my mind whenever I see Carrie Ann Inaba on #DWTS?
is brian still a fan of jim carey?
brits are very repressed #dailyshow
1%er - Expert says anti-bikie laws will fail... http://www.Bikernews.net/go.cfm/p/11350
So I made Valleywag today. Must be a really slow news day if they're quoting my airport tweets. http://is.gd/st3m
I know! the internet is so distracting ::shakes fist at internet::
Jamie Foxx will be on Leno tonite!!
Hey are you one of those right wing extremist CNN is talking about? #tcot  *jokng*
only on tuesdays
1%er -  Man pleads not guilty killing Canberra Rebels bik... http://www.Bikernews.net/go.cfm/p/11351
Watching 'The Reason Why You Will Never Eat At Domino's Pizza Again [Videos] - ThisIs50.com : IF IT'S HOT IT'S HERE!' at Vodpod http://b ...
I Love Idol! `American Idol&#39; switches up judging format - The Associated Press http://is.gd/sufL
'Desperate' Star Killed Off in Bizarre Car Crash, Presumed Dead!: http://tinyurl.com/czqa4f
Seminar Marcus Borg overplays evidence for historicity in LiveScience interview Who Was Jesus, the Man? http://is.gd/s20y
7571 yes. give me minute and i will be right there.
JacobWolfe@Nessie_Monster ::hugs:: All you need to know is that you are beautiful, and that your family and I love you.... puke
http://tiny.cc/ken5 Rihanna's tattoo is spelt wrong. Whoops.
Broadcasting live now! See me at http://tinyurl.com/26h5fu
Lindsay Lohan Gets Tattoo http://tinyurl.com/dmg6l7
RT @chrisonhismac: Working on the new @kayakforacure site - follow them for updates on one of the best charity events of the summer.
http://tiny.cc/ken3 Kate Walsh Files New Divorce Papers
perhaps I'll call myself an Interweb Pontificator. Or Code Cogitator.
Eww! I have a friend who is NOT a teenager who still does PDA.
Chris Brown Has New Girlfriend! http://tinyurl.com/d97hep
Un mort et deux blesss pour une moquerie (via 20Minutes - Actu Paris) http://tinyurl.com/cxescj
j venho tarde, mas c ficam os votos de boa noite :)
A Chanteloup-les-Vignes, les moteurs ont la frite (via 20Minutes - Actu Paris) http://tinyurl.com/dzo6db
Dcoupez, c'est gagn (via 20Minutes - Actu Paris) http://tinyurl.com/d5fh6t
Jessica Mauboy Nearly Arrested Recording Latest Hit 'Been Waiting': http://tinyurl.com/cneg8c
http://is.gd/sugh GM-VOLT : Chevy Volt Electric Car Site: Rumor: Cadillac Converj and Electric Buick Crossover Approved for Production
http://is.gd/sugi AutoblogGreen: Wang Chuan-Fu, BYD's CEO, drinks battery fluid to prove a point
Off to bed.  Not feeling so hot, so we'll see how I am in the morning.  May be another sick day tomorrow...
http://is.gd/sugj News: No more foreign oil at 120mpg
I can't believe Allison on American Idol is 16 with a voice like that! Quentin Tarantino is bizarre... somehow i don't see how he's relevant
http://is.gd/sugk AutoblogGreen: SAE 2009: FEV will bring Dodge Caliber plug-in hybrid concept to Cobo
Dear bethenny fron housewives, can I be you?
http://is.gd/sugl Green Car Congress: Michigan Awards $543.5M in Tax Credits to Four Battery Makers, Who Announce Plans for $1.7B Invest ...
http://is.gd/sugn Zoomi Life: Wearable Chariot Concept Vehicle For the Disabled
http://is.gd/sugm AutoblogGreen: Record attendance at NHA Hydrogen Conference and Expo
http://is.gd/sugo Zoomi Life: Raser Technologies E-REV SUV, 100 mpg Platform
I stand corrected & apologise for what's quite an insult if my welsh friends are anything to go by. Shoulda said Birtish!
Jeff Burton talks about Phoenix, the economy, auto manufacturers, Marcos Ambrose, and more #nascar http://twurl.nl/87skym @thenascarfiles
Zac Efron Makes Fun Of Himself AND Fans! http://tinyurl.com/cbgjcf
Updated my blog with Safe Weight Loss? http://tinyurl.com/d8zl9g
advice: http://tinyurl.com/cxqah4
Not that I support sending nude texts, but ... come on.
How can you make a small house become beautiful an clean?: http://tinyurl.com/d7mfdf
[Eric Holder  tell  reporter] "Are Mexican drug traffickers armed with US guns?" ? http://ur.ly/ghl
Aww, thanks.  That does my heart good!
awww good!! starbies tomorrow? bethany is working 12-5:45 i think so i'm going to visit her!
Need a Scholarship? Goto http://theessaycontest.com  Win a Full Ride and a Car... early entry may win a MacBook #RT
Allison didn't do so well... She has a great voice but she was off tonight
Follow Dale Earnhardt Day 2009 on Twitter   http://twurl.nl/j300sg #nascar (via @thenascarfiles)
__ROWLAND I am loving your "Baby Twizzler Innocent Randomness!"  lol
PR dahh of the day:  Fed weighs holding periodic press conferences http://uk.reuters.com/article/companyNewsMolt/idUKN1446459120090415 Mull?
_kiwi, it's 11:11, thinking of you!
Recommended by @TonyLoyd (a great people-strategist) > http://sn.im/leakr
iPod Dock 8-Way Battlemodo [Listening Test] http://ff.im/-27GWF
[blog] Larry Brilliant quits Google for Skoll Foundation project: Three years ago Larry Brilliant joined G.. http://tinyurl.com/daf5aw
or even British, doh! Well, it is late...
and @sethisis GET A ROOM
RT @neverbloomer Thank God for The Current, wish we had more shows of that calibre. [YES! It compels me to take action on so many issues.]
My dog had been humping a pillow for 2 mins. Don't know whether to stop him or let him enjoy it. Seems highly inappropriate for 9 weeks old.
Social Networks: Coffee Houses Without Geographic Boundaries? Nice read:  http://tinyurl.com/djb8cm
#numberplates 2 x AUDI Number Plate Surrounds SUPER TUNING AUDI !!!: &#163;8.10 End Dat.. http://tinyurl.com/djprr6
2 Hooray for you!
You're entitled to be cranky with them for a bit but still support them in the long run, tis human nature.
 From a friend. Glad you like it.
LSU freshman Russell Shepard will play QB only in spring game: Although he has moved around in the offense this .. http://tinyurl.com/c3zmvv
More on Danica Patrick to #NASCAR? http://tinyurl.com/cc4xqv #indycar (via @thenascarfiles)
You Shall Know Our Velocity  #badnamesformonstertrucks
I actually prefer the aluminum MacBook to the MacBook Air. It's the perfect balance of size & power;
yeah dunno how im gonna be with out ben..
Pakistan arrests 20 Indian fishermen, seizes 4 boats http://r.reuters.com/qec24c
big paw hugs! let's see how it goes 2morrow.  ^..^
Indians help Africa's leather trade whip recession http://r.reuters.com/nec24c
is wondering whether marketers are helping drive CSR (reputation) or just communicating it? Where's the focus in most orgs?
Mohammad Ajmal Kasab's mother due in India - PTI http://r.reuters.com/pec24c
1621 LOL
The New Orleans Saints will host three night games this season, including two on Monday Night Football: Three pr.. http://tinyurl.com/cwc5xo
"Sickness shows us what we are" Latin Proverb
[world] US banks to return government bailouts:  Goldman Sachs raising $5bn to pay back aid. Fear over .. http://tinyurl.com/cguftf
New Orleans Saints have to be happy with their 2009 schedule: Finally. For once the NFL schedule-makers appeared.. http://tinyurl.com/c9xqu8
 i thought i was your fave person in the world :O
RT @Faithable decided to turn homework in half done- I'm in too much pain to even type..need to go to bed #pray4
A link for @themediaisdying http://bit.ly/QDGFt Google boss Eric Schmidt says the majority of newspapers should be online
Geeking out about bit.ly and about to send my team an overly excited, babbling email.
RT @insurgent Video of @shellyroche of BreakTheMatrix on Fox Business today about Tea Parties & TARP - http://tinyurl.com/d8w8h7 #tlot #tcot
If the New Orleans Saints decide to take a running back with the 14th pick, there will be options: The nit-picki.. http://tinyurl.com/d6kqwk
04  yeah
CIA recruiting quietly at UNM http://snipurl.com/fwzdu http://tr.im/iQEa
BREAKING NEWS: 19 ABC Learning Centres to close: Corporate recovery firm PPB has announced that it has found buy.. http://tinyurl.com/csqcng
there are many online radiology resources like MedPACS. Don't know any oncology tools. #oncology
American Idol Update: Adam Lambert & Allison Iraheta are getting the most votes tonight on Twitter http://idolfanforum.com/ #idol
thanks I will - I need to let the dust settle a little from hubby getting laid off from WAMU..I mean Chase
these are very strange ?s lol i don't need a robot THAT badly. i really only watch bourdain and jon & kate on TV. book r better
RT @bjbyrne: Twitter popularity puts relationships in a twist http://usat.me/?34766274~it all just screams "S/HE'S JUST NOT THAT INTO YOU!"
Mining Email for Contacts [The Mossberg Solution]. Good solution instead of copy and paste. http://viigo.im/j9a
Just enjoyed stuffed pork chops and squash. Too full for dessert.
Anderson Cooper is talking about you guys *snicker* Recession Radicals I think your teabagging is making them nervouse #tcot #Rush
New virtual assistant job posted here today: http://tinyurl.com/dj7kxq
HA!  I typed  amazon.com wrong, and it sent me here.  http://tinyurl.com/dhp2zj
RT @christianpior Vim dizer q ovulei com o liderzinho da equipe renunciando o prmio. #aprendiz
Vampire Weekend  GUNS OF BRIXTON - http://www.last.fm/music/Vampire Weekend http://tinyurl.com/c9qyqb
Re: Kejiranan Putra Terrace: Putra teraace yang kat belah mana ye....saya org baru, saja nak tahu........ http://tinyurl.com/cnutsr
The BA-K-47 Doesn't Fire Bullets, But It Does Slay PETA Activists [Image Of The Day] : An AK-47 crafted out of b.. http://tr.im/iQEd
13 Maybe if she turns out to be my personal travel agent, we both could meet him at the same time.
Looks like we are related to people on Facebook [wink wink]. But the "brothers" are on Twitter!
Business owners feeling sting of tobacco tax hike - Rome News Tribune http://www.clickaudit.com/goto/?132490
That's a cool shirt. I'd wear it with my Adidas Philippines jacket.
Run-D.M.C.  Walk This Way - http://www.last.fm/music/Run-D.M.C. http://tinyurl.com/38mqvn
Retromodo: Wireless Portable Music Player? Welcome to Sony, Circa 1988 [Listening Test] : The dominant media pla.. http://tr.im/iQEe
Membekal Ikan Keli dan Ikan Telapia: Salam sahabat semua,Kami menyediakan perkhidmatan membekalkan ikan keli dan.. http://tinyurl.com/cjhxfm
Thanks for the RT :)
Bo's First Day http://cli.gs/BDJaJ8
Re: Beli Mesin Jahit ...: hari tu ambek mesin jahit lama arwah nenek brand singer tapi assesories byk tak jumpa .. http://tinyurl.com/ce6v6g
NASA Names Treadmill, Not Toilet, After Stephen Colbert [Colbert] : After almost getting a toilet named after hi.. http://tr.im/iQEg
Nak Baiki Atap/Bumbung Bocor: Salam,Saya nak repair atap/bumbung bocor dan nak minta tolong kepada warga Putra M.. http://tinyurl.com/chrcwh
AT&T Trying to Keep iPhone Exclusive Until 2011 [Unconfirmed] : The WSJ reports that AT&T is talking to Apple ri.. http://tr.im/iQEj
X Japan I.V. Music Video Saw IV  Marketing Sense http://bit.ly/13Zj35
"Why We Don't Condemn Our Pirates in Somalia"\
FOX29	Candidates Debate For DA Position http://tinyurl.com/dfbyb2
 I'm doing my Chardonnay :)  How ya doing sweetie?
@37celsius bankwest, and so am i..
Yahoo Is Said to Plan More Layoffs (Miguel Helft/New York Times): Miguel Helft / New York Times:\
t.. http://tr.im/iQEm
"burberry invented the trench-evrythng else is basically an interpretation" halfway through april.look good in the rain: http://bit.ly/5BJqt
(cont.)  RT: @darylhunter then, 100  years later - undersea cable map in 2009 - http://bit.ly/2MwzUA /// Very Cool
looks like skydrive.
"study" based on 13 ppl concludes twitter makes u immoral. nothin like "science" & a zealous reporter http://snurl.com/fx16e (h/t @mtlb)
30-year mortgage rates AT BOTTOM - SIGN UP FOR UPDATES http://ow.ly/10Jk   
Perfect day: friends, ferry/water/island, local pub food, bought more art, consignment/antique hunting, artisan chocolate, unbelievable sun
 The FTC Wants To Keep Bloggers Honest Search Engine Optimization ... http://bit.ly/hMqqc
17 good! hope ya rockin one of my other brands now!
Interested in the email opportunity... can you give me the details? Thx!
More than just ipods now...recycle old electronics for cash http://bit.ly/zunU
Looks like Carnivore is acting up again #tcot #teaparty
Gibbs-Mazak Collaboration Extends to Exhibits http://bit.ly/3ra8V4
HAAAAA! IT'S MIND BOGGLING ISNT IT!? The completely LAST place you'd think a fire to start is in a giant box full of water.
Yes he is "puking" up the water.
While ignorance is not meant to be an excuse, these kids are just being stupid, not quite what the laws were original meant for.
3 Not yet, at least.  ;)  I did take a look-see already - can't wait for "mid-2009"!  Gotta start savin up 4 it now.
Expired Domain Strategies For Search Engine Optimization http://bit.ly/1ZnVG3
Building relationships on a budget http://bit.ly/2ODKXY
A bit choppy down in Mornington.  http://twitpic.com/3c6qq
Are those really so hard to find in LA?
I love Coco Chanel quotes.
beta adwords interface warning. - Search Engine Optimization Forum ... http://bit.ly/2urG26
1 Haha, nice. I figured that was who it was.
I will be using http://icerocket.com smart search engine all the time. Obviously you guys are on top of things.
Search Engine Optimization | Best Stock Prices http://bit.ly/i3lHE
13 Oh yeah, him to. LMFAO!!!!
shares http://tinyurl.com/b7p8na (Tatiana's MySpace!) http://plurk.com/p/o8z39
Simple Guide to Your Search Engine Optimization (SEO) Process http ... http://bit.ly/Vj7UZ
see previous tweets LOL  J/K - not sure, depends on if I can ditch my class
History Offers Advice for Owners of Orphaned Brands | Autopia from ... http://bit.ly/etAEX
Project Analogue's CD now available on Amazon! http://tinyurl.com/d4v6gf
Law professor demonstrates how the Book of #Mormon supports #ActivistJudges, torture, and suspension of free speech: http://is.gd/rZm2
beautiful photos!  I'm glad you went with all the colors!
did u make 1000 i need 20 to make 1100 tonite tweet deck is awsome fun [;-)
Reagan was right: fire their asses!
come on down!
Chrysler debtholder talks pick up pace; GM stalled - Business ...: DETROIT -- The pace of negotiations between C.. http://bit.ly/42O41z
No interest loans to remodel your house in a "green" way. How to cash in out of the break.
good albums droppin. Can't forget about.. Killa!!
The Conduit - 13 multiplayer modes, included ASE Football http://gonintendo.com/?p=79157
Ok - enough of Totally Rad Show - gotsta get back to work!
SEGA announces Wii MotionPlus support for Virtua Tennis 2009 - full press release http://gonintendo.com/?p=79156
The desert has big wind/sand storms at times, hope the cars got into the garage safe & snug
_MomIF  Its still going ans interesting too:)
Research Associate (9185BR),Corporate,Johnston, IA, United States: TBD Send This Job To A Friend Job Description.. http://tinyurl.com/ccdmbf
I hate accepted SpongeBob in my home, guess i can work at Hot Topic again;)
It just shows me a page not found.
48 Days Later: Wii MotionPlus Release Has One Odd Minus http://gonintendo.com/?p=79155
glad to see people that care keeping the #amazonfail alive. wanna host a blog, book, etc at www.amazonfail.com ??
I guess I'm not in trouble ;) Donuts for everyone!
Bought the domain "pict.in" Hoping either someone in India will want it soon or someone who wants to do a shorter twitpic.com type service.
RT @skitzzo Kevin Rose Admits Digg is "Taking Your Shit" http://cli.gs/3pPTde
Research Associate (9091BR),Corporate,Dallas Center, IA, United States: TBD Send This Job To A Friend Job Descri.. http://tinyurl.com/d9l6qa
Good thing about crashing at parents when attending conference: free bed. Bad thing: their cable modem is also crashing.
Porsche Panamera: In-depth tech briefing and first ride http://bit.ly/3AUyFv
Twitter-fam, it's Long Day Part 2, making it an early night.  Peace!
http://www.rockafiremovie.com/
Sorry 'bout that!
  mine too mine too!  And I heart Sammi Brady:)
Research Assistant (9127BR),Corporate,Johnston, IA, United States: TBD Send This Job To A Friend Job Description.. http://tinyurl.com/c2s66v
RT @JustTravlin: RT @ValerieStevens Get Fresh With Your Website! | http://ow.ly/2S4J
Got first new work computer in 4 years. Wondering how long it will take to transfer everything over and be comfortable with the new system.
says they aren't  http://tinyurl.com/cv7pzo
23, @mikedish, @kbondelli, @kansasjackass Nice to tweet you guys! Not many places to go with that but you know what I mean. :)
Research Assistant - Glassware Support (9156BR),Corporate,Johnston, IA, United States: TBD Send This Job To A Fr.. http://tinyurl.com/d3xc6j
RT @mysolarenergy: wildsingapore news: California Utility to Capture Solar Power in Space http://tinyurl.com/cqt9sd if this can be done cool
Sessions of interest at MySQL Camp 2009: I wrote previously about what I&#8217;m looking forward to at the upcom.. http://tr.im/iQEC
Inbound Marketing Summit: San Francisco CA: April 28-29th: http://tr.im/gY4b By @chrisbrogan  @dmscott and @pgillin
Gamer Investments - Video Game Industry and Stock Market News ...: 2K Play and Feld Entertainment Announce Ringl.. http://bit.ly/o3SUR
Nada mucho. And you?
Thanks to all our new followers today.  Look forward to reading your tweets.
Dinner at Django was great...now I'm ready to sleep like a rock.
004  Will you twirl in a bikini with your hands on your hips? Those are my favs
Thanks to all our new followers today.  Look forward to reading your tweets.
Research Assistant,, IA, United States: Research Assistant Location Huxley IA The Corn Trait Integration Team at.. http://tinyurl.com/davw3s
Video: fuckyeahjohnohhh: I don't understand why no one has commented on the Tacate. Does no one know what it... http://tumblr.com/xzf1lcprf
Video: fuckyeahalltimelow: I wore my favorite hat Alex driving scares me. My man vest? haha I think it is... http://tumblr.com/xzf1lcprk
Pirates Attack Again: Pirates attacked an American-flagged commercial vessel Tuesday in an unsuccessful new hija.. http://tinyurl.com/cta7ed
Nope. Don't see you. Wave harder. Maybe put on that hunter orange shirt & cap, too.  ;)
RT @TechMechanic another interesting article - Calling All Investors: eBay Announces Plans To IPO Skype In 2010 http://bit.ly/O8UeA
has a new headset! The old one went BORK BORK BORK. http://plurk.com/p/o8z9a
nagawa ko pa magsulat sa blog hahahahahaha http://plurk.com/p/o8z9h
Garmin Approach G5 Golf GPS http://ff.im/27H2b
GONZALES HEARING: FEINSTEIN ON ATTORNEY FIRINGS http://ff.im/27H2d
opening up with some brand new Silversun Pickups...  Panic Switch, a real rocker... I love it!
The Oregon Economics Blog: A Note About Oregon&#39;s Unemployment: The Oregon Economics Blog discusses and comme.. http://bit.ly/70kYY
Thanks! Hopefully I can keep up two at once - I'm not sure if I'm that much of a running geek... my friends would argue, "Yes!"
_Merchant         what is core 17 just getting Miva installed on Host
Circling the square: round images with CSS only | The Theme Museum http://ff.im/-27H2i
Fitch Teleconf: Recessionary Economy Looms Large For Housing ...: Fitch Teleconf: Recessionary Economy Looms Lar.. http://bit.ly/2VwJ
Woof thanx to everybuddy! Pls RT link to rescue 2 Welsh Corgi siblings needin' a furever home *together*! http://tr.im/iOQ6
As a rule a man's a fool, When it's hot he wants it cool, When it's cool he wants it hot, Always wanting what is not. :: I think I agree
24k a month with a 3x9 matrix, impossible dream or fact? http://short.to/4lve
THeRe WeRe STRaiGHT uP DuCKs iN OuR PoOL! DoeS OuR BaCKYaRD LoOK LiKe a PaRK oR PoND! SHeeeeeeSH!
Thanks, I'll look at that...
RT @ProsperbyDesign: Social Media Training: LinkedIn for Corporate Connex http://snipr.com/fwpk0 Webinar April 21st 8pm EST.
MyTeamRivals.com Cleveland Indians: Is it too early to talk about the 2010 season?: The Indians.. http://tinyurl.com/cs92x2
RT @ARDELLd: http://twitpic.com/3c68v - Oops! Meant to post this one OMG CUTE PICTURE!!!!
Two hundred take part in biker memorial rally thro... http://www.Bikernews.net/go.cfm/p/11352
fala srio!! O elenco feminino do Aprendiz Univesitrio esta bem melhor que o #BBB. No acham?!
I...know...the...feeling...
RT @itsawomansworld Style: Goldie: Morning Beauty: Nice to see Goldie out attending anhttp://tinyurl.com/dhhqtf
Take a ride wit me! hope you can keep up! lets go!
Red pill -- how's that puppy fitting in?
Trade Forex Options | Real Estate News Articles: You must have heard about George Soros; the man who made a cool.. http://bit.ly/f4GnC
thank you onion: Michael Bay Signs $50M Deal To Fuck Up 'ThunderCats' i actually LOLed. http://tinyurl.com/c4sd57
Forex Trading - Does News Trading Work?: Forex Trading - Does News Trading Work? Written by admin on April 14th,.. http://bit.ly/K9hzF
RT @lynngg: Consistency is only a virtue if you are not a screwup.
Social Science Research Analyst,Alexandria, VA, United States: The Food and Nutrition Service (FNS), an agency o.. http://tinyurl.com/dkqj52
Yeah & there is Lil' trying to argue her way out of it. That bothers me...
0on us too!  At least we can get a postmark tomorrow! :)
RT @aplusk someone pointed out I should do 1000 anyway.. good point if I get to 1 million b4 cnn i'll by 10000 bed nets http://www.malar ...
Forex: USD/CHF falls below 1.1400 | Forex Updates and News: FXstreet.com (Barcelona) - After falling around 55 p.. http://bit.ly/2HXqQO
_Fox_News Link is not working, may want to double check.
Operations Research Analyst I - Mortgage Operations Analyst - ReqCode 0900008774,Corporate,Richmond, VA, United .. http://tinyurl.com/dcrw7q
ahahhaha verdade!! esse  vintage!!
Euro Crosses Slipping Below Support Lines | Forex News Desk: EURGBP drops below support line -EURCHF towards 1.4.. http://bit.ly/McxP
RT @MeanBot: @meanbot  is a travel agent for guilt trips
AP affiliate youtube woes spread on twitter "world's best medium  for complaints"  RT @brainpicker http://is.gd/rE57
We cannot truly face life until we face the fact that it will be taken away from us. -  Billy Graham
RT @CourtneyCooper: @ecrabb   mine too mine too!  And I heart Sammi Brady:)  (WITH ej)
Scrivere con la Luce http://ff.im/-27H3O
Free Forex Trading Signals: Positive News From US Banks - Forex ...: Forex Trading Recommendation, Forecast, Tra.. http://bit.ly/j3Qc
Research Associate,Herndon, VA, United States: View National Student Clearinghouse profile and job listings Rese.. http://tinyurl.com/dyzvh5
Send your tweets into Evernote from Twitter. Nice idea! http://ow.ly/2TvM
I am aware of this, as a Yorkshireman we have the same with Lancashire - I try to stay out of regionalism!
__ROWLAND Feelin Oh So Silky Smoooooth!!! LMAO
Energy Infrastructure Analyst/Researcher,Corporate,, VA, United States: Requisition Number\
Learning how to update my webpage by looking at what works for others.
that's a killer testimonial! :)
Only in Texas? You Reckon? @GospelChick Man ticketed for cursing at neighbor http://is.gd/sugq
pocket* http://is.gd/sui0 #twitter
Senior R & D Electrical Engineer,Salem, VA, United States: As a member of the Research and Development team, the.. http://tinyurl.com/cn4x77
I really like her -- love Papa was a rolling stone -- but thought she messed this one up.  Still, perfect, perfect song for her.
'Idol': Movie night gets panned http://t.love.com/204060667
RT @aplusk:  if I get to 1 million b4 cnn i'll by 10000 bed nets http://www.malarianomore.org
NASHVIILLE BARBECUE: Part 11 - Murfreesboro http://is.gd/sui8
RT @Figliuolo -I think the Somali pirates are working too hard for it. Why don't they just ask for a bailout like everyone else?
- np, can't let the left have all the fun
fabulous, bring on the havoc!!!
Preview and picks from the Verizon Heritage http://t.love.com/204067950
 I didn't know King of the hill was still on, I only have seen it in reruns.
 your famous and I follow you. I am soo proud to know a STAR
are u saying that im not loved cause im jewish? why must you preach your religion miley?
The Fragile Flight of the Twitterlings: A flock of new companies are benefiting from the startup's rapid growth... #Twitter #growth #NEWS
007 Night sweetie!
Yes! The song America from West Wide Story. I love it when they can tie in musicals with these types of TV shows. #DWTS
Lake Highland boys lacrosse team slips past Bishop Moore http://t.love.com/204068476
http://twitpic.com/3c6uc - Grand daughter #2 wants equal time.  Did you ever see a newborn thinking so hard?
#ariels Most Popular Short Stubby Black Aerial VW Audi BMW Mini: &#163;3.90 End Date: Saturda.. http://tinyurl.com/czudhr
RT @DesignNewz: 40+ Articles to Help Freelance Designers Find More Work http://tinyurl.com/dkdpxe
okay, done work for today. short day tomorrow, followed by tax clinics.  I hope I have the energy to climb the CN Tower Saturday!!
Se me antojo una Pizza
Social Media and Strategic Workforce Planning http://bit.ly/1ag7E
Nope-All I can think of is that my cash in my acct was in the neg- & I had to add more to play & maybe they cashed me out for it?


